---
title: 1956
description: "In which we discover that Mom was not the first female to attract Dad’s attention! But luckily for us things just never quite materialize with Ruby or Betty or Norma or Vivian. (Vivian?) In 1956 the word thesis appears 47 times in the letters, bus appears 56 times, and church 66. And even though she only enters Dad’s life in July, Ruth wins the year with 86 appearances. In 1956 Dad does not get drafted. He does not dance. But he does cook dinner. He is introduced to his future in-laws, and sees the sights of Oberlin for the first time. And a few months after he meets Mom he can no longer contain his emotions and boldly declares: “I guess she will be the ‘one and only’.” <span class=\"wingdings\"></span>"
previewImage: 1653cbe558888ddab4e87773d8ae4211_html_376c4206.jpg
---
<letter date="1-4-56" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

Dear Mother, <u>Tues</u> - Stood on train to Newton and then had some kind of a seat rest of way although sitting on grip some of the time. A lot of kids on the train going back to school. Met Perry Dashleigh, a senior in the School of Pharmacy from Little River, at the station and we rode together. Arrived went to house unpacked and ate lunch. Worked in the lab in the afternoon. Ate at union and then went to choir practice I guess. Miss Cass is better. She has some arthritis. Went to Ernies <footnote>(The Baptist minister on campus. Mom told me they corresponded with him for several years after they left KU.) </footnote> afterwards talked awhile and home about 11:00. 2 of the boys were back and the other came back Wed morning. <u>Wed</u> - Will be in lab all day today. Fairly warm here.

</letter>
<letter date="1-11-56" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

<u>Wed</u> -Is colder today. Finished with the last frog yesterday. Went to choir practice last night and then Bible study at the church. Ernie is still gone. Stayed around awhile afterwards and didn’t get home till 10:30. Received your letter and sent it on. Seemed OK to be back in this choir. Am cleaning up lab today will go to class this afternoon and then start writing. The dinner Mon night with the Rings <footnote>(Dad lived in their basement in Lawrence.) </footnote> was very nice. 9 girls 4 boys and the Rings. We ate in a private room at the “Stables.” I gave a few tricks there and then we came back to the house for desert. The cooking went OK Sun afternoon. We made stew and had pudding cookies milk carrots celery etc. Had about 35 so it was all eaten up. Hope Aunt Clara got off OK and makes it OK. Don’t work too hard.

</letter>
<letter date="1-16-56" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

Received your letter today. Will read tonight and send on to M.J. tomorrow. Glad to hear that Aunt Clara arrived OK and that everything is OK. Am listening to the KU-Iowa State basketball game over the radio. Listened to the KU-K State game last Sat night which we won. Just heard today that Dean Reece suffered a heart attack last Sat he is only about 48 years old. I guess it wasn’t too bad. He was the one I’d take the French exam from and he would also sit in on the oral exam. Have you received any withholding statements for me. The only thing I know of would be some university money.Worked on thesis last week. Didn’t do much on Sat however. Worked awhile at building. Is real cold here today. Got down to around 0 last night. Went to s.s. and church yesterday. Ernie was back. He had a very good sermon. Sang in the choir. 2 basses and 6 tenors. Ate downtown afterwards with Larry Shrout, Dale Gulledy and Pat Miller (the nurse). Came back home and read paper upstairs here at the house. Sometimes go up in the living room on Sun but that’s the only time. She doesn’t care I guess. Went up to library and wrote on the thesis in the afternoon. Went over about 5:30 to the journalism building and met Jimmy Bedford (the instructor) and we went to Roger Williams <footnote>(Baptist youth group) </footnote> together. About 30 there, good meal and the program was some slides on the Baptist indian missions in Arizona. The Roger Williams spring study tour will be a trip to these missions. It comes during the spring vacation. Rev Lundgren is down there somewhere around Phoenix. The Rev Allen has accepted the call here as you see by the bulleton. As you also see by the bulleton our commission is giving the program for the mens meeting Wed night. I just found out about it last Sat night. Won’t spend much time in preparation. At the vespers after Roger Williams I sang a song for the program about hyms. Came home and did some reading. This morning I worked in library and then went to Rotary. Speaker was about the new state water resources commission. I was the visitor from farthest and wouldhave won a Jayhawk paperweight except that I already had won one.
<v-row><letter-image :sources="['1653cbe558888ddab4e87773d8ae4211_html_376c4206.jpg']" >The Jayhawk paperweight. It currently lives on the fireplace mantel in Park Forest.

</letter-image></v-row>
Went to building this afternoon and prepared a seminar for in the morning. Will go to choir practice and Ernies tomorrow night and then the dinner Wed night. Ate at union tonight, read paper and now home. Will take this down after game is over. Will need to write a rent check and a check for meal money tomorrow. Have not paid the laundry and cleaning bills yet either. Will hold off on the rent and laundry for a few days yet. Should have most of the thesis written in a week to 10 days. Will come home as soon as finished and have you check everything. Will come home even if in middle of week. Classes this semester end Wed and finals start Thursday. Would have a break between semesters anyway. Hope you feel OK.<b>Sun Evening</b> – Am home now after Roger Williams in bed as don’t feel up to par. Have a little sore throat etc. for 1<sup>st</sup> time this winter. Has been real cold and have walked quite a bit in it. Don’t feel to bad tonight so may get over it. Last Fri worked all day on thesis etc. Yesterday the same. Have kept at it pretty steady although not every minute. Am about ½ done. Will try to finish by next weekend. Dr. Wenzel will have to take 3 days off after his mother dies. I want him to check it before the grammer correction etc. I didn’t hear from Ruby till Sat so I didn’t go to K City. She said she was pretty busy studying this weekend anyway. If OK with her I’ll go to K City next weekend and then come home right after that. The Rotary meeting is there a week from Mon and I might try to make that. I’ll let you know later this week.Went to s.s. and church. Good choir, sermon, crowd etc. Next Sun the Manhatten preacher and Ernie exchange places for the day. Ate at the union with Ed Finter and then home and at building awhile working on references etc. Didn’t feel to hot but went to Roger Williams and ate etc. A missionary from the Belgian Congo spoke afterwards. Am home now writing this etc. Hope you’re feeling OK and everything is going. Tell Aunt Clara hello. I’ll try to remember and send M.J. a birthday card. Nothing this week except to work on thesis and Tues night at Ernies. Stewart, Mrs. Rings nephew, is moving into a scholarship hall for next semester and Bob Bentley, the boy from Independence, Missouri is going back to Ohio University to school next semester. Finals run through the 1<sup>st</sup> part of this week.

</letter>
<letter date="1-19-56" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

<u>Tues</u> - Snowed here last night. Guess they needed the moisture. I had prepared for the seminar this morning and then we didn’t have it when a couple of the boys couldn’t come. Ate lunch at Cecil Caldwells house. His wife stays at school (she’s the one that teaches that I gave the show for) at noon. Worked on thesis in library in the afternoon. Went to choir practice and then Ernies. Talked awhile afterwards and then Gene Gardner (a graduate in history from Ottawa) stopped at the house and we talked till about 12:00. <u>Wed</u> - Am in library this morning on thesis. Ate at union and then back to library and got talk for tonight and then to building and then to physiology. Panel went OK although we only had about 10 men there. Discussion afterwards and then home and to bed earlier. <u>Thurs</u> - A little warmer and clear today. Haven’t heard anything from K City so not sure will go in. I doubt will write Dr. Peters a letter. Will work on thesis most of time now.

</letter>
<letter date="1-26-56" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

Snowed a little more here and has been cold most of the time. Have had a cold all week although it hasn’t kept me down. Haven’t worked as hard on the thesis as should. Received your letter read and mailed it on. Went to choir practice Tues night and over to Ernies. Only 3 there so we discussed philosophy and theology. In library Mon night and at building last night. Finals are over here today. Most kids are gone between semesters. Wrote Dr. Peters and said I was available most any time.Wrote Ruby but haven’t heard about this weekend yet. If OK with her I’ll go there this weekend and then home the 1<sup>st</sup> of next week. If not OK with her I’ll be home this weekend. I’ll try to let you know for sure ahead of time. Dr. Wenzel is too busy to check thesis now so I’ll have you correct it first and he can go over it later. You might put a little more money in the bank if you can. Wrote $20 check yesterday and still owe Mrs. Ring and all the cleaning. Hope you’re OK. Glad to hear about Aunt Clara and Faye.

</letter>
<letter date="2-9-56" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

Had seat OK all way up on the train. Saw Gene Conklin on way to speak in K City. Rode from Newton to Topeka with Velma Moore. She was going there to rent an apartment for Lois. Guess she is better. We talked about church work etc. Got here about 11:30. It snowed most of the way up and snowed here rest of afternoon. Glad I brought my overshoes. Had a letter from Ruby when I got here. Went to building and found Dr. Peters had called Mon. I called him and he said to finish everything up and start there on Mar 1<sup>st</sup> at $135. He said maybe till July 1<sup>st</sup>. Left thesis with Dr. Wenzel and said he’d try to get to it this weekend. His brother died last Thurs and he had been to Wis and back. Went to church in the evening and helped on our science and religion panel which was the program for the high school group during youth week. Free meal and helped with dishes afterwards.  This morning finished last couple of pages of thesis and gave to Wenzel. Ate at union and am now home. Molly said she could type it next week if Dr. Wenzel gets it checked. Will write Murray saying I might have 10 days before Mar 1<sup>st</sup>. Not much here now so will go to K City tonight and probably stay over Sun. Will carry in some books. Hope you’re OK.

</letter>
<letter date="2-14-56" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

Have just come back from the building where Dr. Wenzel and I discussed the heart part of the thesis. When I went in yesterday morning he had just started it. He still has the worm part yet to read and said he was so busy he probably couldn’t get to it till this coming weekend. The heart part in general was OK but will have to change all the last part as was expected.Last Thurs morning wrote the last page or so of thesis and left it all with Wenzel. Went to K City in the afternoon. Only took about two hours to get out to Ken’s <footnote>(Ken Holladay – Dad’s friend and roommate)</footnote>  and ate in the meantime downtown. Took a box of books and magazines and left with Ken. Went to the center and called Ruby about 7:15. We talked awhile played some ping pong and had something to drink in the cafeteria. Fri morning stayed at the trailer <footnote>(Where Ken and Dad lived in K City.)</footnote> . (The address there is 3610 Rainbow, K City, Kans) and then went up and ate at cafeteria. Food is about 20-25% cheaper than here and tastes better. Met Bill Casteen a fellow I lived with 5 years ago in Co-op house. He is an intern and has his MD. Spent the rest of afternoon studying in the library. Met Ruby at 5:30 and we ate up the street at a café. She bought a large panda bear for Jackies (her sister) birthday on Sat. She wanted it for her bed. Her sister Helen and Jim (to whom she is engaged) picked us up at hospital and we visited a friend of Helen’s who worked in the law office where Helen works. Went by there house afterwards and then Jim brought me back to Ken’s.Sat morning the fellows came to fix some broken water pipes under the trailer. I stayed till Ken came and then we went up and ate and then played some ping pong and billiards. Took the bus downtown and met Ruby at 5:30 after her work at Goldmans Jewelry Store. We ate downtown and then went back to center. We were going to a music discussion on Schumann but were late so stayed and watched TV. Sun morning we went to the Calvary Baptist Church (American Baptist). Was going to First Baptist where Henry goes but didn’t know how to get there. Came back to center and she left to go home and then to a dinner later on. I ate at cafeteria and then packed and went downtown and took bus back. Went to Roger Williams in evening. About 35 there. Foreign student from Guatamala spoke – very good. Home afterwards.Yesterday morning talked about thesis read some and then went downtown with Dick Rylka (my roommate). Paid the 2 laundry bills $10 looked at some new cars bought and mailed the valentines, got this pen refill etc. Sent valentines to you, M.J. and to K City <footnote>(Ruby)</footnote> . Thought I might receive one from K City today but didn’t. Received your card and letter, thanks. Had written Murray. Received a letter from him today. Probably can’t use me before 1<sup>st</sup> and since Wenzel is slow on reading it probably couldn’t have worked anyway will have to rewrite for 2 or 3 days on this 1<sup>st</sup> part. Read in union all yesterday evening and will this afternoon. Will go to choir tonight and have party afterwards there at church. I might come home a few days before I start in K City. Let me know. Just reading and finishing details on thesis from here on.

</letter>
<letter date="2-16-56" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

<u>Thurs</u> - Tues night went to choir and then had party afterwards. About 15 there and had a lot of fun. Yesterday read and studied most of day and then went to father and son banquet in the evening. One of the men who needed a son bought my ticket. Came home afterwards and read. This morning didn’t do much. Will go and mail this and then work on thesis in library. Dr. Wenzel as I said won’t be able to get to worm till 1<sup>st</sup> of week. May go to K City with a load of things next Tues and attend Rotary there on Tues noon. Could come home that last weekend if you would like. Is cold and misty and foggy here today. May snow tonight. Tell Aunt Clara hello. Send me her address and I’ll write her. Hope you’re OK. Nothing from K City ha!

</letter>
<letter date="2-20-56" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

<b>Mon Afternoon – </b>Went to building this morning. Dr. Wenzel had just started the worm part. Hope he finishes by tomorrow or the next day so can contact the typist. Molly can’t do it and she recommended some man. May have to have a first complete copy, correct it and then the final 5 copies. He’ll charge .25 a page and .01 for each carbon on the final copies. Don’t know how much he’d charge for the first copy to be corrected. Probably won’t receive the K City money till about the 15<sup>th</sup>. Will have it sent directly to the bank there. Will study French today and go to the Dean’s house and take the quiz sometime in the next week or so. He resting at home. He probably can’t be in on the oral if I have it before I leave. Depends on how soon Wenzel gets finished going over the corrections and can get thesis typed and bound. Murray called this morning and said Jack’s (his man) mother had died and he could use me. Had to turn him down since want to get thesis done now. Still will try to come home a couple of days if possible. Probably be next weekend or the 27-29 etc. This depends on thesis. Will try to let you know ahead of time. Went to Rotary Club at noon. And then home. Read all the clippings and will take all up and mail this afternoon.Have heard nothing from Ruby since I saw her a week ago yesterday. <footnote>Grandmother drew lines in pen in the margins on either side of the following five sentences. </footnote> Don’t know what is the matter. I’ll need her friendship or somebodys after I get to K City. You laugh at this but I’m not much good anymore for anything without a little inspiration and companionship from somebody. I’m tired of being with myself all the time. All I did last week was lie around and try to study and read but always thinking of myself. Read all day Sat magazines etc.Yesterday went to s.s., about 43 and then sang in choir. Big crowd at church but small choir. The new pastor comes April 1<sup>st</sup> (Easter Sun I think). Ate downtown with 3 of the boys and then came back to house with Gene Gardner (a graduate of Ottawa and a graduate in history) and we talked the rest of the afternoon. Went down to Roger Williams with Jim Bedford (the instructor in journalism). Don Idbe (our president) gave a book review for the program. Home afterwards and talked with Dick Rylka (roommate) awhile and corrected thesis. Helped Dicklast week when he had 5 teeth out. He was delerious awhile the night before and another boy and I took care of him. I went downtown and got some medicine for him to relieve the pain.Dr. Wenzel complimented part of thesis. Said good English spelling etc. It was the part I’d thought he’d change and it’ll be OK. The draft deferment was till June 15<sup>th</sup>. A new order by the president defers those over 26 and fathers. Had some more cleaning $4 and wrote $15 check today. Glad to hear about everything there and hope you’re feeling OK. I read all the letters from Aunt Clara etc. Ken Holladay is the boy at the trailer. I’m sure it’s 3610 Rainbow Blvd., Kansas City, Kansas. Is warmer here today.

</letter>
<letter date="2-23-56" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

<u>Thurs</u><b> - </b>Am in the library this afternoon rewriting thesis. It is cloudy and rainy today. Jim Bedford had to go to K City this morning to pick up a camera so I rode in and took all my things to Ken’s. Ate at union here as got back in time. Betty Lowell (a girl at the church) started typing the first draft yesterday and hope to have it all done by Mon or Tues. Will try to come home Mon or Tues and then come back Wed and go to city that night. Bedford will take the photographs probably Sat. Went to Ernies last Tues night and since just working on thesis and cleaning up odd jobs etc. Paper, typing etc. will cost some money so put some more in if you have a chance. Finally had a letter from Ruby so I guess we’re still friends. Hope you’re OK and tell Aunt Clara hello. Won’t get the oral in now so probably come back on weekend. Will try to get French in before I leave.

</letter>
<letter date="3-6-56" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

I’m writing this in one of the hospital buildings and will mail here. Received your letter yesterday, will read and send on. Is much colder here this evening after a record 84 yesterday. May snow tonight I guess. Last Sun went to s.s. and church and sang in choir only 4 men. Betty invited me to her house for dinner and then we worked on thesis all afternoon. Got her started typing on final copies. Went to Roger Williams. Left some more pages for her to type afterwards and took 10:14 bus back. Yesterday and today worked around lab. Will have to review pharmacology as will be helping on conferences for the lab (Sophomores). Everything is fine and I like it all OK. Will go to Lawrence again this weekend and all after that till finish everything. Hope you’re OK.

</letter>
<letter date="3-10-56" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

<b>– Sat night 10:30 </b>– I’m back in Lawrence like I was a week ago tonight when I wrote the last letter. Everything went fine last week. Worked around in lab during the week. Have helped on just about everything they are doing in the lab this past week. I have really learned a lot of procedures etc. Have also had some time to study during the day and have studied at night. Being with Ken is a good chance to learn a lot about medicine etc. The major part of the pharmacology lectures for Ken’s class (sophomore) start Monday and last thru the last quarter. I’ll try to attend all I can for review. I think that’s what Dr. Peters wants me to do even though we haven’t talked about it. He said the other day we’d have a talk but he’s been so busy that he hasn’t got around to it. I have talked quite a bit and been around all the others in the department. I’ve helped some in setting up the student lab (Ken’s class) which starts Tues. We will have to run through the experiment on Mon to see how it works. Dr. Carter (the woman PhD) and I will have charge of one of the 4 conference sections which will meet in conjunction with the lab. That’s the only real responsibility I’ve been given so far.Stayed at the trailer last Mon night and studied with Ken. Tues night we listened to the KU-K State game which they won. I had told Ruby I’d call her on Mon (they started on Tues) but didn’t try to call till Wed night and couldn’t get her. Tried Thurs night and she was working. Tried Fri and found her at home. Told her I’d call again on Mon and maybe we could see each other next week. (I still haven’t see her although we were not very far apart for 4 days.) Wed night I worked on thesis awhile in library which is in the original hospital building. Thurs night stayed at trailer and Fri night worked some more at the library. Still haven’t run into Nelson Bachus and a few of the others I know. Ruby said she ate at 11:00 AM last week in the cafeteria at noon. Missed seeing her since I usually eat at 12 with Dr. Carter and the storeroom and animal room man. Ken was off all last week except for Thurs (oral exam) and Fri (written exam). He said if you come you probably rent one of the few rooms they have right there at the student union building. There are also a couple of motels close. Let me know if you want me to reserve anything for you.Slept late this morning and Ken’s dad came at noon and brought us to Lawrence. Ate at union and worked all afternoon with Bedford finishing photographs for thesis. Will buy his dinner tomorrow in payment. Paid $6 to Ernie for another Interpreters Bible. I want the whole set some time so am going ahead while I can get them cheap. Stopped at Ernies awhile this afternoon. Ate at union tonight and went to Ernies to pick up a paper I had left last week. Ken was there and we played some ping pong. Am home now afterwards writing this. Will work on thesis tomorrow afternoon with Betty and will stay tomorrow night for Roger Williams founders day banquet. Ken’s dad may take us back tomorrow night. Ken and I cook at night – Hot dogs, hamburgers, and his canned fruit and vegetables etc. Had your letter from M.J. today and received your card last week. Hope you’re OK. Is colder here tonight.

</letter>
<letter date="3-14-56" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

I’m writing this over by the mail box in the basement of one of the buildings. They pick the mail up every day at 6:00 so I assume you get it the next day. Received your letter Mon. Will send on. Last Sun went to s.s. and church. Sang in choir. Only 3 men again in choir so guess I helped. Took Jimmy Bedford to dinner to help pay for his doing the photographs. We rode awhile and then went to Betty’s house and worked on thesis. Went to Founders Day banquet at church. I led the singing. Man from Ottawa spoke. Went to building afterwards and left some of thesis for final correction by Wenzel. I talked to him over phone and said I’d try oral about 2<sup>nd</sup> week in April. It’ll be 2-3 weeks yet to finish thesis details. Took bus back here and Ken came back with his dad earlier. Had lab yesterday went OK. Been sitting in on lectures on pharmacology. Good review. Saw Ruby awhile Mon night and talked. Last night went to biochemistry seminar. Tonight will study etc. Nothing else new or different. Plenty to get ready for the lab.<b>Mon afternoon -</b> I’m sorry I didn’t write Sat night but I thought the card would suffice till now. We have just finished the conference with the medical students about the lab for last week. The class is divided into 4 groups of 25 students each and Dr. Carter (the woman). I haven’t had anything to say yet so it doesn’t make it too hard. We have a lecture now at 3:00 by Dr. Peters. Last Fri night as I said I went to the nurses show. It was pretty good for a student production. I saw Ruby’s brother and sister and sat with them. Ken went to it Sat night. Sat morning helped Bob Volle (the graduate student) run an experiment. We didn’t finish till 3:00 PM. I went over and got sandwiches for our lunch. He took me downtown so I could make the 3:40 bus to Lawrence. Ate supper with Dick Rylka (the only boy now living in Ring’s basement) and then cleaned up and went to Betty’s house. We worked on the thesis till about 12:45. Closing hours were 1 AM.Sun morning went to s.s. and church. Sang in choir and ate downtown with 3 of the boys. Went to building awhile and talked with some of the boys and stopped off at the library awhile. Came home and worked on thesis and went to Betty’s at 4. Worked some more and then sang awhile around piano and then went to Roger Williams. Not too big a crowd. Ate and then sang in the special Easter music program by the choir. Very few people there but good choir. Had plenty of men. Had refreshments afterwards and then back to Bettys house and finished all of thesis except for 2 pages which will fill in next weekend. She will finish typing and get it to the binder this week I hope and then leave it all at Ernies since their spring vacation starts Sat and runs thru a week from next Mon.  I should have a copy to show you next weekend if she gets it done. The binding will cost $9.75 and she charged about $15. This is real cheap and I’ll pay her some more some way I guess. Wrote checks for those so I hope there’s plenty of money in the bank. Wrote a $10 check today for miscellaneous. Will have to pay Ken before too long although he’s been very nice about everything.Just now got back from lecture and called Ruby. That friend of hers died of cancer so can’t see her tonight. I’ve seen her twice since I’ve been here long enough to talk to her. She is on Sun so guess she can’t eat with us. Betty lives here so I may contact her about Sun. I’ll study nights this week I guess. Feel real tired tonight. Hope you’re OK. Was real warm yesterday and today. I’m going to have trouble with Rotary as we have lab every Tues and can’t get away.

</letter>
<letter date="3-21-56" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

Got my watch back today from Dr. Huggins. I guess it cost him about $3 to have it fixed but he wanted to do it since I was helping him move. Just finished talking to Dr. Peters a few minutes. He was surprised when I told him everything was finished on the masters. I’ve talked to him very little since I’ve been here. I’ll finish working here the 31<sup>st</sup> and then to Lawrence for wedding etc. <footnote>(Ken’s). </footnote> Will take calculus in summer school. I guess I told you that Murray wrote and promised 3 weeks in Aug although he had a man coming on May 21<sup>st</sup> to work the month so Jack Tanner can have his operation. The 3 weeks work will have to be my vacation. The way it looks now this coming fall semester I’ll be taking histology and neuro-anatomy with the medical students and physical chemistry (which requires the calculus). That will probably be the hardest semester of all time. Am not too sure but may come back here next spring or stay in Lawrence. It has gotten up to 95 here today a new record. As I’ve said its all air conditioned. Received a letter and card from Aunt Nellie. Will send on soon or save. I wrote Aunt Clara, Aunt Nellie and M.J. last week. Have to come back to the building tonight at 8:00 to hear a guest lecturer from Louisiana. Last Fri night we had pancakes at the trailer as Ken has some mix he wants to get rid of. I finished cooking all his old potatoes last week. Didn’t do much at night last week as stayed home, slept and read a little. Elisabeth will be here in a week. <footnote>(Ken’s fiancé.)</footnote> Last Sat morning I finally got to go to one of the integrated seminars. It was on household poisons. I took some notes for Ken as he had to go downtown after an obstetrics quiz to get his marriage license. They closed at noon. He got back before the seminar was over and we ate at noon and then home. I took the 2:40 bus to Lawrence. Called Norma and saw Mrs. Ring and ate at union. Spent the evening at home. <footnote>Dad has been asked to sing at Ken’s wedding. </footnote> Bought a copy of one of the songs in the afternoon but will have to exchange it as the words don’t match the ones of the “I Love Thee” that Elisabeth sent from Detroit. The other song is “The Wedding Prayer.” Both are pretty. Sat night called Mrs. Rankin about practicing as she is playing the organ etc.Sun morning I went to the Christian Church with Norma. I heard later the basses were all right at Bap church. I ate at cafeteria by myself rested awhile and then practiced the songs with Judy Klein and then went to church at 3:30 with Ernie and helped the graduating seniors pick the officers for next years Roger Williams. We picked Betty Lowell as 1<sup>st</sup> VP in charge of programs. Came home afterwards and then went by for Norma and went to R Williams. The graduate commission talked on Martin Luther. We went to union and talked till 11:00 and time to catch bus at 11:05. Bus was late. Got to trailer by 1:00 AM by cab.Ken was gone as he is staying with somebody here in city till Tues evening. I’ll probably eat here tonight. Received letter from graduate office last week saying everything was OK for graduation. Will probably hear from you tomorrow. Hope your school is about over. I’ll try to go to Rotary Club tomorrow. Will try to call Loretta Hiett tonight. Tell Aunt Clara hello. Hope you take the train up.

</letter>
<letter date="3-23-56" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

Am in the hospital building writing this. Everything has gone OK this week and have felt OK. Worked in library some on Tues and Wed and Thurs nights. Will go to the nurses show tonight, work in lab in the morning and then to Lawrence tomorrow afternoon. Hope to have all details on thesis finished by Sun night. Sent off the income tax and paid the insurance. Nothing much else unusual this week. Have talked to Henry once since been here but never have seen him. Probably will see him after start staying here on the weekends. May go to Lawrence next weekend on Sat to get thesis and will be here for sure on Sun or could be here on Sat if you come then. Let me know.

</letter>
<letter date="3-28-56" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

You may not get this before you leave. As to Sun I plan to go to church at the First Baptist Church here in K City, Ks. This is where Henry goes. It’s address is 10<sup>th</sup> and Grandview close to downtown K City Ks. Grandview is 4 blocks south of Minnesota the main downtown street. I invited Betty to go to church and dinner since Ruby couldn’t go. I’ll try to check back at the trailer if I don’t see you at church or shortly afterwards. I’m going to their choir practice tonight. The back door of the trailer is always open.

</letter>
<letter date="4-2-56" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

Hope you arrived OK. I waited about 10 min for streetcar to 39<sup>th</sup> and then had about 30 min wait to get across to Rainbow. Got home around 10-10:15 and Ken came in about 10 min later. His mother had given him some eggs but no cookies. Today has been warm and humid and it looks rainy this evening. Finished setting up lab today and had conference. Not too much to do. Henry came by just now and we may eat in cafeteria. He said they were having soup at seminary so he came up.

</letter>
<letter date="4-5-56" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

Everything has gone OK this week. Henry and I played some ping pong last Mon night and then I met Ken and we played some more. Tues night stayed at home and read. Last night went to choir practice and then Henry took me out by Betty’s and we picked up some things so could finish thesis. Warmer here today. Will probably stay home tonight and study. Am going to show tomorrow night with some girl that Ruby fixed me up with ha! May work in lab Sat and will go to Lawrence sometime Sat I guess. May stay over Sun. I don’t know for sure. Hope everythings OK there. Tell Aunt Clara hello.

</letter>
<letter date="4-9-56" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

It is Mon morning and is snowing here. We are all supposed to go to Lawrence this afternoon for a lecture by a visiting professor but may not go if the weather doesn’t get any better. We would leave about 2:30 and come back this evening. Work went OK last week. Everyone in the department (I may have told you this) is go to the national meetings next week. This will leave only the regular employes here. I hope to have some free time to read and study.Last Fri I went to the show with the girl Ruby lined me up big <footnote>(sic)</footnote> . Her name was Betty Tillitson and she was a little bit on the heavy side. Sat morning I came up to help Bob with an experiment but we didn’t run it as one of the solutions got fouled up. I stayed around and did a little library work ate at the cafeteria and went on out to the trailer. I washed the dishes and Ken came in just before I left. Took the 3:40 bus to Lawrence. Went to house talked to Mrs. Ring awhile, ate at union, talked with a friend there awhile came home, went to building and straightened up some kymograph records I had left scattered in the lab, came home and worked a little on thesis and went to bed about 10:30.Sun morning went to s.s. about 10 there as most of the kids hadn’t got back from vacation yet. Ernie and 5 of the kids got back Sat from their trip to the American Baptist Indian missions in Oklahoma New Mexico and Arizona. They saw the Grand Canyon. Sang in the choir but really wasn’t needed as most of the students were gone and they used the junior choir. I sang a simple number for them. Rev Allen the new preacher was there and gave a good sermon. Ate downtown with 3 of the boys and then walked home. On the way I stopped at Gene Gardners house for awhile. Went home worked on thesis a little and then called Betty about 4:30. Went to her house about 5:15 and stayed till midnight. We were going to open house at Ernies but didn’t make it. If anything materializes with Betty, Ruby will probably be out of the picture.Its looks now as if we won’t go to Lawrence this afternoon. I’ll try to get home in 2 weeks. Dr. Peters made a statement this morning that sounds as if he’ll take me. If so I’ll undoubtedly go to Summer school. Heard from Murray and he wanted me to let him know when I’ll know for sure about summer. I’ll just tell him it’ll have to be after summer school. Hope you’re all OK and tell Aunt Clara and M.J. hello.

</letter>
<letter date="4-12-56" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

Finished reading everything last night (your letter) and will send out today. Cleaned up the trailer some last night and did the dishes. I finally went to Lawrence Mon and came right back after the talk. May take the exam on the 28<sup>th</sup> but will probably have to do the French 1<sup>st</sup>. This might mean I’d take the French on the 21<sup>st</sup> so couldn’t come home. Since most everyone will be gone here next week I might be able to leave during the week for that. I’ll let you know as soon as possible and will try to get home sometime. Went to bed early Mon as was tired. Tues night studied some. Missed choir last night as have been hoarse all week and will probably be in Lawrence most weekends. It snowed and rained here last Mon but is warmer now. Received notice yesterday that am overdrawn $7.08 as of 4-6-56. Have written about $8.45 since and will need some money for this weekend so will probably need more money in bank before the check comes thru. Tell Aunt Clara hello – I hope you’re all OK. I’m not as hoarse today but have some cold.<b>5:15 Mon PM -</b> Sorry I didn’t write Sat night but wasn’t feeling too well as a result of that intestinal thing again. Felt fine last week thru Thurs. Labs went OK and everything. Didn’t feel so good Fri but made it through the day. Went to bed without supper at 6:00 and slept all night. Ken slept all that time too. Sat morning came up to help with an experiment but felt so bad I went back to trailer and bed. Dr. Huggins was very nice about it and they didn’t need me very bad anyway. He had some of it himself yesterday and today he said. Didn’t eat much Sat and didn’t go to Lawrence till the 6:20 bus. The tax assessors came during the morning while I was in bed. They took our ages for the census and they seemed convinced that neither one of us were very wealthy. Took cab out to house after arrived in Lawrence. Then picked up the rest of the heart part of thesis which Betty had finished and then came back by union picked up some sandwiches etc. and came home and went to bed.Yesterday morning felt a little better so went to s.s. (late) and church sang in the choir (6 men this time). Ate at union at noon and then home with Gene Gardner awhile rested and worked some on thesis. Had called Dr. Wenzel Sat night and he had finished correcting the worm part and left it on my desk at building so picked it up Sun afternoon. Spent $3.85 for medicine which helped a lot. A prescription item but I have a friend who fixes me up <footnote>(!)</footnote> .Betty called at 4:00 (she had just got back from K.C. for the weekend) and I went to her place at 5:00 worked awhile and then we went to Roger Williams. Our science and religion panel spoke at Haskell but I didn’t go. Went to Betty’s house afterwards and finished the worm part so she can type it this week. It should be ready to go to the binder by the end of next weekend. Took 10:15 bus back here last night. Felt better today and helped set up lab for tomorrow and sat in on Sun conference on the experiment for last week. I had nothing to do just be there. Dean Wesco led it. Let me know about Easter. Anythings OK with me. I’ll try to go to Lawrence next Sun night to sing in special musical program by choir. I’ll pay that insurance. Maybe you’d better pull out $200 of that $1000 I put in bank as I’ll have no money till April 15<sup>th</sup>. My expenses are less but trips to Lawrence medicine etc. cost something.  Will see Ruby awhile tonight I guess. Their nurses show Cadeceus Capers is this Fri night. Hope you’re OK.

</letter>
<letter date="4-22-56" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

I’ll start this now but may not finish it as am going down and take the 10:14 bus back to K City. I am now at Rings. Has been cooler and windy today as compared with yesterday. As I guess I told you I reviewed some French last week Thurs night. Cleaned things up at the trailer Sat morning and went downtown to take the bus here. The next bus wasn’t till 12:15 so went to the hotel and waited. I’ll try to get to Rotary this week at the hotel, since they’re gone to the national meetings in Atlantic City and we won’t have so much to do this week. I’m missed the 3 meetings in a row which is supposed to terminate your membership.It was real hot Sat. After arriving came out here to the house saw Mr. Ring awhile and then went over and watched the track meet awhile. Saw Ernies boy while there 9<sup>th</sup> grade. Came back and saw Stewart Reeves awhile (Rings nephew). We went to the building and I saw Dr. Sewald etc. about the oral exam. Came back home called Betty and then ate. Spent the evening at Betty’s house watching TV etc. We’re just good friends also.This morning went to s.s. and sang in choir. Fair crowd. Ate at union afterwards and then picked up the negatives from Jimmy Bedford of the kymograph records that went in the thesis. Came back home and worked all afternoon finishing the final details on the thesis. Took 4 copies and left at the building for the men sitting in on the exam. Left a message for the dean saying I would like to take the French exam next Fri afternoon. I’ll be able to leave work on Fri. Went to Roger Williams with Bedford. Walked home with Betty afterwards.Will take the oral exam on the 28<sup>th</sup> unless Sewald can’t make it. Since I can take off on Fri next week I’ll plan to come home Fri night at the usual time. Don’t send any money as I received my 1<sup>st</sup> check here and had it cashed. I thought they would send it to the bank but they didn’t. I’ll bring home the 5<sup>th</sup> copy of the thesis so you can keep it there. I’ll carry one copy with me and the other 3 copies will stay here at KU. 2 in the library and one for Dr. Wenzel. I wrote Murray that I couldn’t promise anything more than Aug after summer school. I’ll see him when I’m home next weekend. That’s all the news from here. Hope everythings OK there and tell everyone hello. Guess I’ll call a cab and go down and take the bus back to the city.

</letter>
<letter date="4-24-56" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

Got a seat all right on the train and it was right on time all the way. Had 2 seats together and got more sleep than I thought I would so wasn’t too tired yesterday. Got here at 6:30 and was home by 7:30. Ate some breakfast and came to work. Worked all day doing some analysis and helping here and there. Tried to call Loretta Hiet but she wasn’t there or was asleep. Ate at home had some liver etc. Ken went to the show and I stayed at home and read a magazine and rested. He got back about 11:00. Today Bob Voille (the graduate student) and I ran an experiment with mice which took all day and then heard a lecture at 4. Cold and cloudy here today. I was glad I got to go home over the weekend and hope you’re OK.<b>Sat night 9:00 PM - </b>I’m now in Lawrence listening to the K-State-Missouri basketball game. Was glad to receive your card in K City yesterday. The train was a little late last Wed morning. It had older coaches but had 2 seats so stretched out and slept some. Got here about 6:00 AM and went to bed awhile. Ate at union checked with Bedford about photographs and went to building. Will have to make some more changes on the worm part. Came back to house and finished picking out the worm records for the photographing which Jimmy Bedford did in the afternoon. Went to Betty’s house afterwards and left the paper for the final copies. Betty and one of her friends needed a couple of gallons of distilled water so we went to building and got it for them.Cecil Caldwell (married Baptist graduate student) invited me to supper. His wife didn’t know of course but we had plenty to eat. He had me for supper one other time. His wife is the school teacher for whom I gave that magic show. I guess that paid off. We went back to lab awhile and then he brought me down here while I finished packing. Had to leave a few things. Cecil was very nice and took me down to bus. It was the 10:17 bus and got to K.C. and took 11:30 city bus out to Kens. Unpacked some talked and went to bed about 1:00.Was at the medical science building by 8. Dr. Kathleen Carter (PhD in pharmacology and doing research) was there and we went over and ate some breakfast. She says Dr. Peters usually arrives about 9:00 and the others from 8-8:30. Since I’ll be helping on some of the experiments will probably be there around 8:15-8:30. Saw Dr. Peters and went over to payroll office and signed withholding etc. First check will not be till April 15<sup>th</sup> which will pay for Mar so better put a little money in along till then. My food expenses will be much less since Ken and I cook at night and lunch at the cafeteria runs around .60 while it is .75-.80 here at Lawrence. Spent rest of the day helping some and observing in lab. Ate in the cafeteria with Dr. Carter at noon. Ate with Ken at night. Went up to women’s residence to say hello to Ruby but she had gone home. Called there and talked awhile. They had finished their exams and her group had off till next Tues morning. She was busy for Fri night so couldn’t do anything together. She had been at the center during the day. Went home afterwards and read and talked with Ken till 12 or so. Ruby said she made an A on a paper and thought she made Bs on her finals.Yesterday worked and observed around lab all day.  Learned how to run some instruments and learned some of the analytical procedures and techniques they run. They will set up the medical students lab next week so will help and observe there as necessary. Since most of their work is related to the kidney will have to review all the renal physiology etc. Attended the department (pharmacology) seminar at 4:00. Dr. Carter presented her research. Quite a few doctors (PHDs and MD’s) there. Ate at the trailer and talked about medicine with Ken and read all evening till about 12:30. We talk about diseases etc. ha! but I don’t get them all like I used to.Fri morning went to lab at 8:30 and Bob Volle (graduate student from Tulane) and I ran an experiment. Had to kill a rabbit etc. Finished about 1:00, ate at cafeteria. Saw Richard Searl and we talked awhile. Stopped at dorm and called Pat Miller. She said she might have a ride here but didn’t. She had ride to bus station but I missed her when couldn’t get home and packed in time. Took next city bus and 3:40 bus to Lawrence. Bus up by Ernies to pick up photographs of records which Bedford was to have left but he didn’t have them finished. He’ll get them done next week. Said hello to Rings, ate at union, saw Pat there and have been home all evening.Called Betty and may eat at her house tomorrow noon and then work on corrections on thesis. Will go back tomorrow night on bus possibly with Pat after Roger Williams. Hope you’re OK. Searl said he was driving home on the 17<sup>th</sup> but the next few weekends will probably be spent on thesis etc. Had a church bulletin arrive in K City. Haven’t called Henry yet. Hope you rent apartment. Tell Aunt Clara and M.J. hello. <footnote>Grandmother is sending this letter on to somebody – maybe Aunt Clara - and writes in the margin: “A very scribbly letter, but you may enjoy hearing the details for guess I haven’t sent you any of Carroll’s letters lately. They’re all about the same.”</footnote>

</letter>
<letter date="4-30-56" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

Was cold here last night but has warmed up some and the sun is now shining. I forget when I wrote you last last week but there was nothing different I stayed at home every evening. Last Thurs evening cleaned up all books magazines did dishes etc. I guess I’ll cook for a while now and Ken will do dishes. I mentioned your going to the wedding and he said he didn’t want to obligate you with a present and he had only met you once and Elizabethhadn’t met you at all. I tried to call Loretta Hiett (I told you that I guess). Last Fri helped them run an experiment and then we had seminar from 4-5:30. Sat. home in time to eat and take 7:40 bus to Lawrence. It was warm then and rained most of the way to Lawrence. Took city bus out to Rings and said hello to them. I always read the papers at their house and feel fairly free about using the front room occasionally. I told them I was going to pay them something for all the weekend stays. I tried to call Betty but she had gone home or something. Spent rest of evening at home outside of buying some sandwiches at the union for breakfast.Sat morning dressed up and took exam. As I said it lasted from shortly after 9 till 11:30 or so. Talked with Dr. Wenzel about the grammer etc. He and the dean signed the theses and Dr. Wenzel took his copy. Ate at union with Dick Gerber a boy I lived with at Twin Pines Co-op. Rested all afternoon outside of stopping by football game a few minutes. Also left some pills for Mrs. Klein’s hay fever which Jim Gleason had given to me. He’s a medical student here (Baptist). I knew she could use them. Ate at union again and spent evening at home and went to bed early.Sun morning rode with Rings to church. He quite often has taken me by when he takes Mrs. Ring to her s.s. class. He very seldom goes to church. Good choir etc. and good sermon by new preacher. Ate downtown with couple of boys and took bus back to house. Mrs. Klein invited me to dinner for bringing the pills but didn’t go then. May go some other time when she’s more prepared. In the afternoon called Norma Beasley (a girl who works some in the pharmacy office) and asked her if she would take the 2 copies of thesis by the graduate office where they were to be left. I took them by her house and we talked for 1½ hours and then went to Roger Williams at 6 and talked afterwards till time to catch 10:15 bus. Got here at 11:10 but missed city bus (as they have changed the schedule) so took cab out.Have worked on an exp. all day today and went to 2 hrs lecture this afternoon. Norma will be 23 on June 4<sup>th</sup>, is single, from Atwood, Kans (in N.W. corner of state), lives on a farm, lives at Douthart Hall (a scholarship hall) is majoring in occupational therapy, is shorter, about 5:3, brown hair, more intelligent than Ruby or Betty, is very religious with beliefs like mine, likes to sing, has taught a s.s. class, does not wear glasses and is much more mature than Ruby or Betty and well I’ll see her next Sat and Sun.

</letter>
<letter date="5-7-56" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

I hope you had a nice convention in Wichita. I received your card last Fri. I guess it was. You had the dates right. Sun June 3<sup>rd</sup> is Bacchal - and June 4<sup>th</sup> is commencement. I will have to be in Lawrence by Fri evening June 2<sup>nd</sup> for the wedding rehersal and then the wedding is Sat afternoon. Ken has said nothing more so I guess you are not invited. All the Baptist kids who know him will go together and buy them a blanket. This is customery for all Baptist students who get married. I started it off by giving Pat Miller .50 today.I called Ruby last Thurs and had her leave those joke books and clippings she had saved at the Womens Residence office and picked them up. She had left for work so I didn’t see her. Her months vacation starts tomorrow. I told her to have a good time etc. I have said nothing more but that is the end of that. I am very glad now that nothing more developed. I have seen her occasionally in the cafeteria and we always speak.There is no possibility as far as I know now of coming home right before the commencement. I’ll talk to Dr. Peters again before too long but I assume I’ll work till the 1<sup>st</sup>. It is true there wouldn’t be much time before summer school starts. I’m sure there will be plenty of room upstairs and in the basement at Rings. I don’t know how I’ll get my things moved back to Lawrence but Ken may have some room in his dads car etc. when he goes down for the wedding etc. I guess I still give her away too. They have decided yet on the music so I won’t have much chance to practice etc. Ken and I stayed home every night last week and read, studied, talked listened to records, radio etc. We listen to quite a bit of classical music and he has quite a few records. Not sure I told you but I cook now and he does the dishes. We ate quite well last week and had a broiled steak one night and frozen fish pie, mashed potatoes, Kraft dinner etc.Sat morning I came up to hear a seminar on arthritus but it had been postponed till next Sat. Didn’t have to work as they weren’t running any experiments. They aren’t running quite as many expts now so last Thurs and today have done nothing much but read attend lectures etc. Sat we then went downtown and took the 12:15 bus to Lawrence. Ken wanted to go to talk with Ernie about wedding etc. He went home after we got there and I went to house. It was real hot. I watched the KU-Iowa baseball game and saw Bob Seiwald. We watched a mile run on T.V. etc. Called Norma ate at union and went to her house about 7:30. We talked till 1:00 with some time out for some tea at the union and a short walk.Yesterday morning went to s.s. and church as usual and sang in choir. 6 men but large choir overall. Ate with Ken at Kleins afterwards and spent most of afternoon there, played some ping pong etc. I picked up Norma about 5 and we came back to Roger Williams picnic. Played some softball. Had food, devotional, and then stayed at Ernies awhile. Ken and I took the 10:14 bus back. Rode out in cab as missed bus. Rained on way back and into night. A lot of thunder etc. Trailer still leaks a little bit. Has been cloudy today. Hope you’re OK and say hello to Aunt Clara.

</letter>
<letter date="5-15-56" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

Just came back from a lecture on insecticides and agents used to kill rats and mice. The lectures in pharmacology are just about over. I learned a lot of new things and it was a good review. The finals at Lawrence start a week from Wed and Ken’s finals are just before the end of the month. Received your letter yesterday. I will write everybody as you stated. Why don’t you and Aunt Clara just come on the train. The stadium is just across the street from Rings and you could stay there till time to go to the exercises etc. Baccalaurate is Sun even. at 8:00 and commencement Mon even. at 7:30.  If it is raining they are held in the field house. Norma checked again at the graduate office and everything is finished OK and complete. There had been some question about filling out a card. I was glad to here you got card etc on Sat.I stayed at home as usual on last Fri night. Sat morning came up here to lab and helped Bob with an experiment. We were thru by noon and then ate in the cafeteria. Went home and got ready to go to Lawrence. Took the 2:40 Bus from here. Fri and Sat both set records here for high temperatures. Got to Lawrence about 4:00. Called Norma and then the boy living down there took me down and I got one of the songs for the wedding. Elizabeth later sent the 2 songs both in the wrong range so will have to buy another one I guess. Ate supper at union and saw Gene Gardner (the graduate student in history) and spent some time at his house talking, came back and went to Ernies to leave some more tablets for Mrs. Klein. Talked about wedding awhile played some ping pong with Jim Klein and went home to bed. The basement is always cooler.Sun morning went to s.s. where I gave a <u>devotional on mothers</u>. (<footnote>Grandmother’s underlining.) </footnote> Sang in choir. Only 1 other base so I was needed. Good sermon and crowd. Ate downtown with a couple of the boys and then walked back to Rings. Took it easy all afternoon. Went over the song with Judy Klein and played some catch with Jim Klein.
<v-row><letter-image :sources="['1653cbe558888ddab4e87773d8ae4211_html_a6c89467.jpg']" ></letter-image></v-row>
Went by for Norma and went to Roger Williams. Poor supper there and Dr. B spoke on Christian marriage. Stayed for vespers and then walked to her house and talked till closing hours at 11:00 PM. I made the bus and was in bed by 1:00 AM here. Ken stayed here as his relatives didn’t go to Missouri for Mothers day. Yesterday studied some as not much doing in lab. Went home got supper and then Ken and I lay down about 7:30 and slept till 12:30 and then got up and went to bed. Longest sleep here yet. Not too much here in lab today either so studied some more. Will probably be at home the rest of the week as usual. Got paid today. I can send home some money for the bank account. I will pay Ken all up before I leave. Hope you’re OK.

</letter>
<letter date="5-25-56" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

I received your letter today. Go ahead and go with M.J. and Bill on the trip. After summer school I’ll work that 3 weeks in August. What do you mean would I be too disappointed not to get home until afterward? I paid the Blue Cross yesterday. I had overlooked it. I’ll get paid this summer possibly more than now. I assume that I’ve been accepted. I assumed that long ago. Dr. Peters seems agreeable. I’ll go to Lawrence with Ken’s aunt on the morning of the 1<sup>st</sup>. Elisabeth will be here Sun morning.Norma just quit going steady with a boy in the Air Force. She may have other boyfriends. She leaves the 31<sup>st</sup> so won’t be at commencement. Have studied this week mostly as little in the lab. Will take some quizzes next week for fun to see how I do. May help Ken clean trailer tonight. He came back from Rich Hill, Mo. Tues night with his brother. They made a little flower garden. Will be in Lawrence Sat and Sun as usual. Norma’s house has a picnic tomorrow night. Will practice songs.<b>Tues Morning – </b>Received your card yesterday. I hope Aunt Clara feels OK so she can come to the commencement. I talked to Mrs. Ring and was pretty sure she would have a bed for you. You could sleep in the basement if absolutely necessary. I paid her $5 for the weekends and told her I’d move back in this Fri morning. I won’t need a new tie for the wedding as I have that good gray one and Elisabeth said last night she liked it very much. I sent the charcoal suit to the cleaners in Lawrence. Ken will wear a new dark blue suit and black shoes. Elisabeth has a wedding dress. There were 5 people in Roger Williams getting married this summer so they all got blankets. The Kleins tried to get a discount but didn’t so they ran a little short of money. I had only given .50 and so I told Clara I give more if they needed it. The graduate degrees will probably be printed in the paper later. If it doesn’t get in you could put it in. I would hate to try and do anything about it here. Glad your school is over and hope you get some rest.As I’ve said before there wasn’t much doing here last week so got some studying in. Bob Volle (graduate student) had to study quite hard as he is taking the pharmacology for credit. Last Fri evening Ken and I worked on cleaning up the trailer. We worked some more Sat morning. I ate and took the 12:15 bus to Lawrence. It was fairly hot but not quite as bad as the week before. I stopped downtown and picked up the last piece of music. Elisabeth sent two but I had to buy different keys in each one. I’ll just keep them for my file.Went to the house and talked to Mrs. Ring awhile and then went up to the building and talked to several of the graduate students. Dr. Wenzel has been promoted to full professor which is pretty good for only having been there 8 years and as young as he his. Dr. Sewald is getting married the end of July. Stayed there till about 4:00 and then went back home and called Norma. She was downtown so didn’t call till after 5. They were going to Tonganoxie for their picnic but since it looked rainy they stayed at the hall. She lives in one of the new scholarship hall, Douthart. Betty lives in Watkins which is also a scholarship hall. I went over about 5:30 and we ate on the front lawn. Watched TV awhile and killed the rest of the evening till 1:00 (that’s closing hours). She couldn’t go to church Sun morning since she was on 12:00 cook shift. Her birthday is the 4<sup>th</sup> of June and she’ll be 23. She’ll be at Topeka State Hospital this on the psychiatric service for occupational students.It rained early Sun morning. I started walking to s.s. and Kleins were just going so went with them. Good s.s. and church. Sang in choir and ate downtown afterwards with a couple of the boys. Walked home and then went to church to practice with Mrs. Rankin on the songs. Went home afterwards and put a few things away I brought down. Went by for Norma at 5:30 and we went to Roger Williams. The program was a skit by the graduating seniors and then instillation of officers afterwards in the chapel. We walked back to her house and talked till closing hours at 11. I made the 11:05 bus as usual and was at the trailer by 12:30.Elisabeth got here Sun morning and her trunks were there. Ken got in about 1:00. She is staying at the union in one of the guest rooms. It rained that night. Yesterday I took the quiz with Bob. He was required to take it and Dr. Peters wanted me to take it. I wrote almost 5½ hours and was tired so went home about 4:00. Elisabeth and Ken were there. We talked ate and then they went to the show. I straightened things around some and then went to bed about 10:30. Today not much doing. May help an exp. or so this week and then move Fri. Wedding rehersal Fri.  Just come to Rings when you arrive.
<v-row><letter-image :sources="['1653cbe558888ddab4e87773d8ae4211_html_adafe556.jpg']" ><b>6-3-56 – </b>Dad as the dashing best man at Ken Holladay’s wedding. That’s Ken on the left.

</letter-image></v-row>

</letter>
<letter date="6-12-56" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

Received your letter yesterday and card today. Received your card from Topeka last week. Hope you are having a nice trip and are not too tired from riding so much. I’m kinda tired myself from getting up at 6:30 for 7:10 class. Last Fri after arriving I came out to house. Received letter from draft board in reply to my letter. They said they’d probably let me finish summer school but might be drafted then. I checked and the letter hadn’t gone out yet from the graduate office. I wrote another letter appealing the classification and the lady at the draft board here talked like if that didn’t work I could appeal to state board. This would kill some time and carry me into Sep. Once enrolled you can be deferred for the academic year. I wrote and had Dr. Peters send a letter also.I registered and enrolled Fri afternoon. I don’t have to pay fees till June 21 and they will be less because of fact I’m ½ time employee. Didn’t do much last Sat and Sun except read some rest and church etc. on Sun. Only 1 bass and tenor in choir. Tonight is practice but I may not go because of math. I may go tho. Sun evening went to the ecumenical group at the Presbyterian Student Center. About 35 there and good speaker. We ate there. Wrote a letter to Norma afterwards. I’ve never heard a word from her so I don’t know whether I’ll be going to Topeka any or not.Yesterday morning after class went downtown and talked to lady at draft board. Ate at union at noon as will most of time. If I eat breakfast it will be at 9 after the class. Ate downtown last night with Ed Finter a Baptist finishing in engineering. We studied in library yesterday evening and he helped me with calculus. I’m not completely lost after 2 days but may be later on. This morning went to building and talked with some of boys till 11. Ate and worked math this afternoon. Outside of math theres nothing else the rest of the week. I’ll probably go crazy but maybe I’ll make it. I’ll write Aunt Clara and Nellie. Once again have fun and don’t overdo trying to see everything and don’t worry about me. Tell everyone hello.

</letter>
<letter date="6-13-56" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

Everythings OK here. Hope its not too hot there. Is quite warm here today and it may rain. My class is from 7:10-9:00 so its not so hot then. I study in the air conditioned library union etc. I’ve had two cards from mother one in Ill and one from KY today. She said everything OK. Suppose you’ve heard also. Hope you’re feeling OK and not working too hard. She sent me their itinerary as she probably did you and said you called. I went to choir practice last. Nothing much else doing.

</letter>
<letter date="6-18-56" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

Everything OK here. Have received your cards and letters every day. Thanks. I’ll save them. Glad you are having a nice time and getting to see all those places. I hope you got the letter in NY. I’ll not receive any money from the University till the draft situation clarifies. I talked with Dr. Peters about it. He wrote a letter. Just studying and reading and not doing anything else.Went to Rotary today. 3 Men in choir yesterday and went to that combined group in the evening. Have first math test tomorrow morning. I’m still slow at the algebra so probably won’t do too well. I guess the grade isn’t too important as its not graduate credit. Had card from Aunt Clara. She’s OK. Will write her another card. Received my last check and will send to bank. Will probably have to cash bonds etc. Tell M.J. and Bill hello.

</letter>
<letter date="6-28-56" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

Got back OK Tues night. We stopped for a drink on the way out of town. I hope you were not delayed by some fire at Emporia on the Santa Fe that I read about the next day. Vivian just started going steady this last week so I guess I’ve lost out all the way around. <footnote>(Vivian?) </footnote> Rained and blew yesterday. Talked to Ernie some in afternoon and studied in evening. Have read physiology this afternoon and will read this evening. Nothing else here.

</letter>
<letter date="7-1-56" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

It is now clouding up and blowing and will probably rain. I’m on the panel tonight at the ecumenical church group. The subject is world revolution. S.s. and church this morning. Another boy and I were the only men. I missed practice last Tues of course. There were 6 women. The preacher had a hernia operation 2 weeks ago but was back today. Got a ride on the hill afterwards and ate alone at the cafeteria. Nobody to eat with from church as Edd Finter goes home and just nobody else here.  Saw Vivian and her man eating there also. He is large. Wrote a letter to Betty last week but probably won’t hear from her either.The temp was almost 100 so stayed in basement this afternoon. Read a little for the program tonight and listened to radio. I must study calculus tonight as haven’t done tomorrows assignment yet. Thurs Fri and Sat I finished reading the histology book. My recreation, diversion and inspiration is reading books in my field ha! ha! I’ll have to study math this week as will probably have another test. We have Wed July 4<sup>th</sup> off. Will probably be at home as usual.<footnote> We are all glad you decided not to stay at home Dad!</footnote>  Last year went on a picnic with the intervarsity fellowship. There will be fireworks over on the hill in front of the stadium. The s.s. class may go to the Starlight Theater sometime before long.Last Fri night a couple of other boys and myself helped Ernie at the church. We puddied some nail holes and did some painting. Were there till 12 and Clara brought refreshments down. Slept late Sat morning and then read and studied rest of the day. I alternate between the union and the library basement (air conditioned) for studying. I go to the building occasionally and talk to the boys etc.Dr. Wenzel has been gone to some meeting. Dr. Seward is looking for a job as he won’t be back next year. Tomorrow I’ll probably go down to Rotary and get haircut. I could come home next weekend I guess. Let me know if that is best. I had a letter from Ken and Elisabeth in Switzerland thanking us for the gift etc. Received your letter and clippings.

</letter>
<letter date="7-4-56 – Mom and Dad’s first date! Intervarsity Fellowship picnic.
Fireworks on the hill!" variation="note" :has-footnote="false">



</letter>
<letter date="7-5-56" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

I’ll come home this weekend. We have an exam next Mon morning at 8:00 which I’ll have to be back for. I’ll probably study as much there as here for it. I’ll take the 6:00 train tomorrow evening. Has rained here several times. Went to Rotary Mon. Studied and read the rest of the time. We had vacation yesterday.Went over to see the fireworks at the stadium last night with Ruth Laidig. She is a Presbyterian.
<v-row><letter-image :sources="['1653cbe558888ddab4e87773d8ae4211_html_9e1c2d2c.jpg']" >Grandmother writes in the corner of this postcard: “First mention of Ruth Laidig.”

</letter-image></v-row>
Talked with Mr. Hitt the registrar this morning about draft etc. Haven’t heard anything. I’ll probably make it into Sep but Peters may not take me on for only a year.

</letter>
<letter date="7-10-56" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

Has been cooler here yesterday last night and today. That boy you saw, Lyle Doddard, and I rode together all the way on the train. It was the jerkiest train I’ve ever ridden. Got here about 7:15 and came out by cab. Ate at union, read papers, came home and reviewed awhile. Made another C on the quiz yesterday morning. Didn’t study much rest of day as took shoes downtown, ate down there and then back by and saw Ernie. Read awhile at library and then ate downtown with Edd Finter. Went to library again but didn’t get any studying done as Ruth came in and we talked awhile and then went to union. We’ll go to K City next Sat with the Baptists for a picnic and then to the “Desert Song” at the Starlight Theater <footnote>(~8000 seat outdoor theater)</footnote> . Will study today and then to choir practice tonight. Hope you’re OK and got the sump fixed.

</letter>
<letter date="7-11-56" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

Was glad to receive all your cards and hear that everything went OK on the trip. Dr. Wenzel and I just got back from K City. Should be able to finish this problem in 2 more trips. The results are working out better now. It is Mrs. Ring with whom I am staying. The number is 2303. I will try and come home as soon as I finish this worm problem, about 2 ½ wks. Hope you got rested OK on the trip. It has been quite hot here most of the time. The basement room sure helps. Went on a picnic with the Intervarsity Christian Fellowship group and watched fireworks afterwards. Been working and reading rest of the time. To church yesterday etc. We meet in the new building now. It’s OK with me whenever you come here. Will probably be hot here anytime. Will go into K.C. about 1<sup>st</sup> of August to see about next year etc.

</letter>
<letter date="7-12-56" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

Rained some last night and was somewhat warmer yesterday. Tues night went to choir practice and then to library awhile. Yesterday morning went to building and talked to boys. Studied rest of day and ate downtown with Finter. We played miniature golf later in the evening. Just out of class now and will work problems the rest of the day. Will help paint at church tomorrow night and that’s about all. Received your card. Hope you’re OK.

</letter>
<letter date="7-16-56" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

Was hot yesterday (98) but rained yesterday evening and last night some. Has rained a little just about every evening. Received your card last week. We have our next quiz Wed morning. For the 1<sup>st</sup> 3 quizes I’m exactly on the class average. There are 28-30 so being in the middle isn’t too bad I guess. I suppose I start to work for Murray 3 weeks from today. I’ve explained everything to the math professor and he understands. My usual shirt size has been 14½. I sent 20 shirts and 4 pants to the laundry last week. $8 all together.I forget when I wrote last. Studied most of Thurs and then Fri night ate downtown and then went to church and helped varnish etc. in Ernies office and in Roger W. kitchen. We finished up. There were 3 of us and Ernie. Slept late Sat morn. Ate at union and then studied some at library. Went by for Ruth at 3:30 and we met at church. We rode to K City with Milford White the crippled boy. There were 3 cars and 11 of us. We ate in Swope Park near the Starlight. Cooked hamburgers etc. The “Desert Song” started at 8:30. We all $1 seats together, a little farther back than the time with Ken. Came back afterwards and was home by 1:00 AM.Yesterday went to s.s. (10 including Ernie) and church. Had 6 men in choir including Dr. Brewster. The Sun I was gone there were no men so Dr. Brewster and another man volunteered their services. John Durden was back in choir after being 2 years to service. I ate downtown alone afterwards, as there was nobody else there alone. Walked home and stayed in basement. Fairly cool even though real hot outside. Just rested most of the afternoon. Went to meeting at 5:30. Ruth and I went to the band concert afterwards. It was cut short by rain and we got wet. Stopped at union a while on the way back. Today I’ll study tomorrow study and choir. Hope everythings OK there etc. I finally had a letter from Betty ha! Received your letter and clippings today. Thanks.

</letter>
<letter date="7-19-56" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

Has been cooler here and rained yesterday evening etc and will probably rain again today. Went to choir practice Tues evening. 3 men. Took test yesterday morning. All grades were higher and I made a low B. My only chance for a B would be to do real well on the final quiz and the final itself. They will be harder so I don’t know. I’ll try. Studied yesterday afternoon and went to buildings awhile. Ate downtown with Edd Finter and then went to the library with Ruth in the evening. Will study the rest of today and have nothing else planned for the rest of the week. Hope you’re OK and not working too hard. Tell Aunt Clara hello. Mr. Ring is putting in a bathtub on the 1<sup>st</sup> floor.

</letter>
<letter date="7-23-56" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

Received your card etc last week. Studied last Thurs night in library. Studied Fri and went to building awhile in the afternoon. Ate at union and met Ruth in library in the evening. Sat morning slept later and read etc in the afternoon. Ruth and I went to the show and then spent the rest of the evening together. Sun morning we went to s.s. together. She is a Presbyterian but has been visiting other churches this summer. She sat with Mrs. Klein while I sang in the choir. Ernie went to that same conference that Rev. Haworth did. I ate at the union afterwards and spent the afternoon at home reading studying etc. Went to meeting at 5:30 and helped serve the punch. Ruth and I went to the band concert together and then went to Dixon’s Drive-In with Molly and Vaughn. They’re getting married next Sun night. Everyone is invited. I might go.It wasn’t too hot over the weekend, rained a little last night and is cloudy now. I’ll go downtown in a little bit and go to Rotary. I didn’t go last week. Tomorrow night is the last choir practice. We have one more exam in math before the final. It’ll probably be Fri or Mon and the final a week from Fri. I had a good time in K City. I usually have a good time even though I don’t say so specifically.I got the shirt and will just keep it as is to bring home. Most of mine are 14½ but might be able to wear 15 or 15½. Hope your housecleaning is going OK. The cooler weather has helped I would imagine. Tell Aunt Clara and M.J. hello. I have nothing else scheduled this week but study etc. Just got back from Rotary. Received your letter. Will read and send on. As far as I know I’ll start to work 2 wks from today. Hope Aunt Clara is better. The cartoon about the magician was oh so true.

</letter>
<letter date="7-24-56" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

I am in the math (ha!) library this afternoon as usual. (<footnote>Because Mom works there <span class="wingdings"></span>) </footnote> I’m not too sure how I did on the quiz this morning. Possibly a high C or low B. Talked for a couple of hours after class in the union this morning with a couple of friends and then home. Will start reviewing this afternoon for the final. It will be 2 hrs from 7-9 on Fri morning during the last class period. I heard that the Santa Fe changed their schedule so I’m not sure when the trains are now. I’ll start packing right after the final and come home either Fri night or Sat sometime depending on the schedule etc. Ruth’s father will be here Fri afternoon to take her home to Oberlin so I will not be staying for the weekend.I saw Betty last Sat in the union. She was down to take the Western Civilization examination. Studied with Ruth last Fri night. Slept later Sat morning and cleaned room etc. and then studied in library awhile. (Ate downtown with Ruth last Thurs and then we came back to library. She had to go down for some material.) Sat night we went to the ballet concert at Hoch Auditorium. Sun morning we went to the 8:45 service at the Presbyterian Church, and then s.s. and church at my church. <footnote>So much church! </footnote> She sang in the choir with us. We then ate downtown and talked a while. Went to the last ecumenical meeting and then to the last band concert. We decided not to go to Molly and Vaughn’s wedding at 8:00 since it was so hot.Received your letter yesterday, will read all and send on. Reviewed for the exam yesterday and as I said above that’s all I have left to do. Has been quite hot for several days, but the basement has been a lot cooler. Don’t see how they stand it up on the top floor. I asked Mrs. Ring about rent and she said I was all paid up. I don’t feel I have to pay her for the last 3 or 4 days in Aug. I plan to store practically all books, radio etc there in the basement. They’ll keep it locked I guess. Hope everythings OK there with you and Aunt Clara and I’ll see you soon.

</letter>
<letter date="7-26-56" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

It is real hot today at least a 100 I guess. Hope it’s not too hot for you there. We have our last hour exam next Tues morning and then the final is a week from tomorrow. I’ll try to let you know how and when I’m coming home but don’t expect me till I get there. Studied Mon night and Tues night after our last choir rehersal and last night. I’ve either studied with Ruth or seen her the last three nights at the library and we stop by the union on the way home. Since she works in the math library I’ve been studying there in the afternoons. That’s all I’ve been doing and all I will be doing for the next week. Hope you’re all feeling OK.<footnote><b>Summer break – </b>I don’t have any of Mom’s letters to Dad during this time, but I have a packet of Dad’s letters to Mom, from August 1956 – May 1957, in a box in my closet. I have not read them, and will not be transcribing them here <span class="wingdings"></span>  Here is a picture of Mom on a chair lift in Wyoming in August.</footnote> 
<v-row><letter-image :sources="['1653cbe558888ddab4e87773d8ae4211_html_8a1ab3ce.jpg']" ></letter-image></v-row>
<b>Wed 7:15 </b>– It’s been another hot day. Got up to 102. I hope its not so hot there that it makes school hard. I wasn’t fully aware that I had classes today but they mentioned it yesterday at K City so I made it OK. We had about 2 ½ hrs lecture this morning and 2 ½ this afternoon. With 110 people in one small room it gets kinda crowded. We get to check out microscopes at no extra charge (graduate students only) so I’ll keep one at the lab and use Aunt Clara’s here. The slides are in boxes so I can carry them back and forth. I picked up the microscope over at Bob Johnson’s this evening. I got the books yesterday. I bought 2 books today for $22 and may have to get another $9 one. I can see that the courses will keep me plenty busy. I called Lee today and he is due by now with the truck. The room still isn’t straightened up as haven’t had much free time. Ruth had a Presbyterian cabinet meeting from 4-8 so may see her later this evening.Mon I had seats on the train OK. I rode with a former English teacher her at K.U. She works in an office in Topeka and is about my age. I guess she had been visiting her aunt Miss H the former high school teacher. Took a cab out to the house and talked to Rings awhile etc. They fed me lunch. The closet that had my coats etc. broke and Mr. Ring found them all in a heap at the bottom. As a result they are wrinkled and I’ll have to iron them or have them cleaned. Mr. Ring got some work done but things are still in a mess. He’s got books and boards scattered around down here. They have nobody else down here but have 8 girls upstairs. Most of the boys stay in dorms now I guess so they don’t have many applicants. Lee Murray just came by and left the trunk. He picked up another magic book and said he had brought the other 2 books up here with him.Mon afternoon I stopped by the building awhile and saw some of the boys. I cashed a check, checked in in histology lab etc and stopped by the union and talked to one of the pharmacy people who were helping with enrolling. I went downtown to the draft board and reserve office. Got the physical transferred to Thurs the 27<sup>th</sup>. I heard today from the lady at the draft board saying I could probably enlist even after receiving an induction notice. That means I’ll easily get this semester in. I ate downtown Mon came home and met Ruth at 8 we talked rest of evening. Yesterday after writing your card went home, ate at union and went to choir. Got Ruth at 8 and went to open house at Ernies about 40-45 there and Ray K was one. Left about 10:15. Today got enrolling and registration in after classes etc. Bob Voille the other graduate student was here. He commutes on Mon Wed and Fri since we have Tues and Thurs off. Tomorrow I’ll study and try to see Dr. Wenzel etc. Dr. Peters said to try to get the French out of the way this fall so that’ll really make a heavy load. Received your card today. Hope you and Aunt Clara are OK.

</letter>
<letter date="9-16-56" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

I didn’t get this written earlier so I won’t get it mailed till tomorrow. Received your card yesterday and also a letter from Don Montgomery. He said well I finally got a letter from ole dad after 2 yrs. I’m glad I finally wrote him and will try to kept up some correspondence. Don was thru here about 2 wks ago today I guess. Last Wed after finishing your letter Ruth and I took the bus down and mailed your letter. We walked back and talked awhile. After classes all day Wed I had Thurs off. I studied in the morning and then went over to the building awhile around noon and talked to Dr. Wenzel and some of the boys. Came back to library and then ate with Dean Smith. In the afternoon studied some more and then finished unpacking etc after supper. Went to library and studied awhile and then home.Fri had classes all day and then studied with Ruth in the evening. Slept late Sat morning and ate at union. Studied in library in the afternoon and then home. Ruth had phone shift till 8 so after that we went downtown and she mailed a letter to her parents. We spent the rest of the evening together. It has been hot here practically every day. This morning went to s.s and church. Big crowd in church. All full downstairs and good choir. Not too many new ones in choir. Had 45 in s.s. plus 5 married couples who will meet as a separate class. Rev. Allen gave a good sermon. Ate alone at union since there were no boys at church who eat out. Everyone this year is in a dormitory etc. Studied all afternoon in the library. Ruth came about 3:30 and we studied 5:15 when she went to her church group. I went to church at 6:00. The church people gave a dinner for the college people and all the officers of the church were introduced etc. It was a good meal and had big crowd talks etc. Went to union afterwards with Mr. and Mrs. John Durden and Mr. and Mrs. Cecil Caldwell. The 2 men are graduate students in pharm, chemistry. Cecil is 26 and John is 28. We all talked and drank in Hawks Nest. <footnote>He does not say what they drank <span class="wingdings"></span></footnote> I came home and talked to Ruth and am writing this and then to bed. Tomorrow is classes 8-5 and then study with Ruth tomorrow night. Have to lead singing Wed night at mens brotherhood meeting. Hope you and Aunt Clara are OK. Glad M.J. could stay awhile. Ruth got back the Sat of that weekend. French now because Dr. Peters wants me to. I’m not enrolling in French just sitting in on a non credit course. I hung up all the shirts so they would be less wrinkled.

</letter>
<letter date="9-19-56" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

Received your letter etc Mon. Had classes all day and studied with Ruth Mon night. Yesterday studied awhile in library, went to building awhile, got a French book to start work, started checking on a minor and went to the French class. This class is for no credit and uses that little book I have. I’m not actually taking a formal course in French. John Durden and wife took me to choir practice at 7 and then went to Ernies afterwards. Had more women than usual at choir but only 6 men. Had 27 at Ernies. Got home a little after 10, talked to Ruth awhile and went to bed. Today is cooler and have classes all day. Will go to mens brotherhood meeting at 6:30 and maybe study afterwards. Hope you’re all OK.

</letter>
<letter date="9-24-56" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

I didn’t get this written last night or earlier today so I’m now at the post office writing it. Last Wed night the song directing went OK at the men’s brotherhood meeting. It was the first meeting of the year (they meet once a month) and they had a pretty good crowd (about 35 as I remember). They had bean soup as they were trying to cut expenses. I rode up on the hill afterwards with Mr. Barry and Cecil Caldwell. Ruth had a Presbyterian Womens Organization meeting so I met her about 8:00 when it was over and we studied together a while. Thursday I studied as usual and Thursday night studied with Ruth.Friday was classes all day and then studied again with Ruth Fri night. Sat morning I slept a little later and then went up and cashed Mr. Murray’s check. He called me long distance and I told him I was going to try the French quiz on the 6<sup>th</sup>. Maybe I can come home on the 12 &amp; 13 &amp; 14. I’m not sure when Thanksgiving is. I rechecked our schedule and I have 2 weeks at Christmas like all the others. I received the card, socks, and hanky OK on Fri. Thank you very much. I wore them both yesterday and the light blue tie with the charcoal suit. That gray coat has that black stuff on the sleeve and with the blue suit wrinkled from having fallen, the charcoal was the only one left. Thanks also for the $25. I’m about out of money so I’ll just cash it and use for food etc. Maybe can get the shoes when I’m home.Ate at the union Sat noon and then went to game with Mr. and Mrs. Cecil Caldwell and Mr. and Mrs. John Durden. As you said we were thoroughly beaten and it was real hot. They brought a jug of ice water so it wasn’t so bad. Ate at the union again and then went to the show with Ruth and spent the rest of the evening with her. Sun morning Ruth went to our s.s. and church. Our graduate commission met during the s.s. time as we have part of the program next Sun evening along with a group from Ottawa. She sat in the audience during church and we then ate downtown so I didn’t have to eat my birthday dinner alone. We studied awhile later in the afternoon and then I went with her to the Presbyterian group. Chancellor Murphy spoke and I wanted to hear him. They had over a 150. There meetings are in the same place as the ones last summer and they’re raising money for a new student center which they need badly. We spent the rest of the evening together. Today was classes all day and I’ll study some this evening. Ruth has to stay at home tonight to proctor their study hall. Tomorrow is choir etc. in evening. Thurs KC and that’s about all this week. Hope you and Aunt Clara are OK. Received your letter today.

</letter>
<letter date="9-27-56" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

I’ll write this even though I may call you tonight. I’m waiting in the bus station here in K City, MO. Our group of 11 boys goes back to Lawrence on the 5:00 bus. We just missed an earlier bus. We left this morning on the 8:43 bus. The army car met us. Filled out some forms and got the physical over by noon. My blood pressure was up but I was rejected on account of my eyes. 20:400 without glasses and these glasses I have only give 20:100 – practically blind I guess. After eating at a cafeteria where they serve all the boys we came back and took the qualifying exam and then I had to wait on the others since I guess I was the only one rejected of our group of 11. Several of them were like me – transfers from other draft boards. I’ll probably study tonight and then classes all day tomorrow. I have a dental appointment Sat morning for a check. I definitely plan to come home 2 wks from this weekend. Thats half way to Thanksgiving and is right after our 1<sup>st</sup> exams. Went to Ernies and choir practice last Tues night. Stayed at home Mon night and read clippings etc. Last night studied with Ruth awhile after 8 as she had her meeting.

</letter>
<letter date="9-30-56" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

I have just walked down here to the post office, will write this and then go back over to Roger Williams. I have to give a short talk (3 mins) on a panel and lead the singing. I led the singing this morning at s.s. There will be some students there tonight from Ottawa to hear the panel. It warmed up this afternoon after being quite cool yesterday evening and this morning. Mr. Ring lit the furnace this morning. This morning had about 46 in s.s. and good crowd in church with Carl Mellor (A Baptist) at the union. Read awhile in library this afternoon. Ruth came for about an hour and then at 4 she had to go to a rehersal. She would have come to RW this evening except she had promised to serve for someone. Tomorrow, since there is a psychiatry lecture at 1:00 I can go to Rotary. I’ll go down with John Patten. He is the Presbyterian student pastor.Yesterday morning I went to dentist. They cleaned my teeth and took complete x-rays. All together $20. I’ll go down Tues morning to see x-rays. Have an appointment about Nov 6<sup>th</sup> for the big cavity. I might go into K City either Tues or Thurs to see Dr. Peters. I’ll have to start studying more as the exam is a week from Friday. Sat was band day at the game and I saw some of them marching after the dentist appt. Ralph took me down and we got all the cleaning $6 that I had left. Ate at union at noon and went to game with Ruth. We tied College of the Pacific (Stockton, Calf) 27-27. It was warm but not as hot as last week. Studied awhile after game and then Ruth and I went to the dance and spent the rest of the evening together. Last Fri had classes all day as usual. We studied together in the library that evening. Thats all thats happened since I called. Hope you and Aunt Clara are OK, school is OK etc.

</letter>
<letter date="10-3-56" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

Everything went OK Sun night at Roger Williams. Had several from Ottawa besides those on the panel. Met Ruth afterwards after her meeting was over and we studied a while at the library. Classes in the morning. Went to Rotary at noon with Dr. John Patten the Presbyterian student pastor. <footnote>In a few short months Mom will request that he be the one to marry them.</footnote>  It was hot again. Received your letter and went to classes at 3:00. Met Ruth in the library and studied with her. She hadn’t planned on being there as she was going to an honor dance. She has so many quizzes she decided to study. She’s taking 21 or 22 hours.Yesterday went to dentist to see x-rays. It’ll take $64 and 3 appointments in Nov. Studied rest of the day and went to building awhile. Yesterday evening went to choir and then to Ernies. Rev Allen led as Ernie was gone. Today have classes all day and will study with Ruth tonight. Received $1 and card from M.J. and Bill for birthday. Tomorrow will probably go to K.C. Fri night is party at Ernies and will probably go by Sellards Hall<footnote> (Mom’s scholarship hall)</footnote>  for Ruth’s open house. Her parents will be here this weekend. Sat is another game with Colorado. Sent your letter on to M.J. &amp; B yesterday. Hope you all are OK.

</letter>
<letter date="10-7-56" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

I’ll write this now and mail it on my way to Roger Williams. Last Wed night I studied with Ruth. This morning took 8:45 bus to K City. Went right out to the med center and talked to Dr. Peters and the others. The money which he would have given to me he had committed to a girl there till Feb 1<sup>st</sup> so I’m on my own till then. I’ll start then at $150 a month. He decided that they could get along without me there this spring so I’ll stay here <footnote>(Lawrence) </footnote> this spring and finish up the biochemistry. That will finish me completely here and give me a minor in biochemistry. That will leave a couple of yrs at K City to do the research and take the remaining course. This seems better than to go to K City this spring and then to move back here in the fall. I could take my vacation next summer and that might be a good time for you to teach me German. I’ll work on French this fall during vacations etc.Saw Ken and Elisabeth in the cafeteria Thurs noon and we talked awhile. Elisabeth has a job in the hospital. She had only worked for 4 days. Everything seems to be OK for them. Played some ping pong with Ken got a haircut there and then came back here. Did a washing as I was out of underwear etc. <footnote>So he does know how to do laundry <span class="wingdings"></span></footnote> I’ll buy a new pair of shoes next Sat if OK with you. I studied with Ruth Thurs night. Fri had classes all day. Fri studied early in evening and then went to Ruth’s open house about 10:30. Went to Roger Williams picnic behind Ernies house at supper time. Had a pretty good crowd. Ernie was gone to a meeting at Green Lake. Sat morning worked in lab awhile and then went to game with Ruth. As you know it was a hard game to lose 26-25. Met her parents afterwards at Sellards. I had met her father last summer. She is a little taller and her hair is light grey or on the way to being white.  She’s 57. We all ate downtown and they left us to go the show “The Eddy Duchin Story.” They were driving back today. They are intelligent and kid quite a bit. They drove to Emporia early yesterday and Mr. Laidig went to the game.This morning went to s.s. and church. Good crowds and choir etc. Today of course was communion. Ate downtown afterwards with Dean Smith and he brought me home. Have been home all afternoon studying listening to radio etc. Ruth went to Topeka this afternoon to help at the mental hospital. The Presbyterians have a set-up whereby they sign up to help on Sun afternoon at the hospital. I guess they can use all the help they can get. I’ll go to R.W. and then home and study awhile. Tomorrow is classes all day. Will study this week for exam Fri morning, nothing else except Tues night. Might not go to choir practice since will be home next weekend. Guess that’s all. Hope you’re all OK etc. Will see you next Fri night on the usual train. I suppose I’ll have to ride that jerky Rock Island train back on Sun afternoon.

</letter>
<letter date="No Date – No Dear Mother -" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

Yes, I’ve seen the young preacher <footnote>(Mom’s ex-boyfriend/fiancé) </footnote> around, he was at the meeting last night. He was a freshman when I was a senior and we both sang in the a cappella choir. He is a tenor. When she pointed him out to me I remembered his face. One night in the union before I knew who he was we both went in and set down beside him. She didn’t introduce me and told me who he was after he left. I guess they’re no hard feelings. 
<v-row><letter-image :sources="['1653cbe558888ddab4e87773d8ae4211_html_68f7b54d.jpg', '1653cbe558888ddab4e87773d8ae4211_html_92b1359c.jpg']" >Picture on Left – L-R – Unknown Young Man, Mom, Mom’s 1<sup>st</sup> fiancé Thor Bogren, Jr.

Pictured in the garden at the Laidig’s home in Oberlin. The stamped date on the back says Sept. 29, 1956.

Picture on Right – L-R – Mom, Unknown and yet Very Attentive Young Man, Thor the fiancé 



</letter-image></v-row>
Glad you got the radio fixed etc. I ordered the new chair. I’m not trying to work myself up to a nervous pitch. I wrote Dr. Paine but haven’t heard anything. I’m studying as much as I would if Ruth wasn’t here and maybe more. I talked some with Ruth about the physical but she had no particular comments. I told her some about how I tense up. I’m not wearing myself out although my stomach and ‘guts’ felt a little irritated today.

</letter>
<letter date="10-17-56" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

Ride up Sun was OK. Train was jerky but not as bad as that 1st time. Took cab out home and was here by 8:00. Saw Ruth a little while later in the evening. Had classes all day Mon. Got practical part of quiz back and although only 80% was 2<sup>nd</sup> high among 10 graduate students and he said was a safe B. We have an exam Fri in Neurology. Studied in the library yesterday evening. Ruth came over about 9:00 after having attended a meeting. Have studied this morning and will attend a lecture at 1:00 and study this afternoon. Tonight is choir practice and then will meet Ruth and go to humanities lecture on the origin of the alphabet. Hope you’re all OK.

</letter>
<letter date="10-19-56" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

Tues night I went to choir and then went to the humanities lecture with Ruth. It was on the organization of knowledge and the alphabet. Wed was classes and then went to the Men’s Brotherhood at the church and lead a couple of songs and there was a good spaghetti and meat balls supper. A man from K City showed movies of his trip to see the Indians etc. Yesterday I studied and then went to a lecture in the evening by a physics prof. It was for anybody and was interesting. Received your letter.  Glad to hear Aunt Clara seemed better. Today was classes and tonight will study with Ruth. Have a quiz Mon in Neurology. Will go to the game tomorrow. It’s with Oklahoma, the #1 team in the country. Is still warm here. Hope you’re OK. I wrote a card Tues and hope you received it later.

</letter>
<letter date="10-21-56" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

I’m at p o and on way to church. Went to s.s. and church and had big choir. Guess they didn’t have many in choir last week when I was gone. Ate at union by myself and stayed home this afternoon and studied. Yesterday morning slept late ate at union and went to game with Ruth. We went to show in the evening and listened to some records at her house in the recreation room. Fri was classes and Fri evening studied with Ruth. That’s about all I’ve done. Tomorrow is quiz and then no more major quizzes for several weeks but plenty of material to study etc. Hope you’re OK.

</letter>
<letter date="10-25-56" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

It is windy this afternoon and getting cooler. Just received your card. I assume you mean Thanksgiving (Th). I have classes on Mon 19<sup>th</sup> and have to be back by the next Mon (26<sup>th</sup>) – Let me know your plans. The thing I was going to do on vacation was study French. The exam is in Jan. but studies will pile up before then. This morning went to pharmacology seminar with Dr. Wenzel and studied. Have gone to a noon seminar on alcohol at Westminster the last 2 days. Last night went to review session and met Ruth afterwards at library. Tues studied, talked with boys at building, went to choir practice and Ernies. Ruth came by after her initiation into the honorary society for women in education. Tomorrow night is soprano on the concert course and no game Sat. Hope you’re OK. Have had cold but better.

</letter>
<letter date="10-29-56" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

I haven’t been able to go to Rotary as you know. I can always ride down with John Patten (Presbyterian) but there is nobody coming back early and its almost essential to be at the 1:00 lectures. Had class this morning. It hasn’t been cold the past two days and is cloudy now. Will have class this afternoon and then will study with Ruth this evening. Got some more grades back and had an 82 and 85 which with the 80 still gives me a safe B. He said I was in the top 3 of the 10 graduate students in the morning part. I still have grades out that haven’t heard about. Since the medical students don’t get to see their grades they call the graduate students in one at a time and talk to us about it. My cold is better but not completely gone and I couldn’t sing too well yesterday. Tomorrow night is practice and Thurs night we’ll probably go to hear the Berlin Philharmonic Orchestra. Yesterday morning Ruth and I went to s.s. and church together at Baptist Church. She sang in the choir. Only 5 boys but went OK. We got a ride back on the hill and I ate at the union and then rested and studied during the afternoon. She read 2 hours to a blind boy. She gets paid .25 an hour. Roger Fredrickson was supposed to speak at Westminster Fellowship so I went there. He didn’t make it but they had an interesting program on symbolism (cross). We studied afterwards at the library. Sat morning I slept late, ate at union and studied awhile at library in the afternoon. Sat night went over to Ruth’s house and I did some tricks etc. and we spent the evening together. Fri was classes all day and in the evening we went to hear Pilar Lorengar, a Spanish soprano. It was at Hoch Auditorium on the concert course. Hope you’re OK and tell everyone hello.

</letter>
<letter date="11-1-56" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

Have just come from cashing a check. Am not sure I’ll have more than $50 in bank by Thanksgiving but can run under I guess. Paid the Blue Cross but will hold off on the dental bill. Tues night it rained but Ruth and I went to choir practice and then to library. I cleaned my room Tues and was home most of the afternoon. Yesterday was classes and then we studied together at library. This morning went over to seminar and will go downtown awhile and study this afternoon. This evening we will go to hear the Berlin Philharmonic at Hoch Auditorium and tomorrow is classes. I enclosed a note to M.J. in your last letter. Wrote a card to Mr. Gilliland and told him I’d try to get to part of a meeting sometime. Hope you’re OK.

</letter>
<letter date="11-4-56" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

Its raining this afternoon and colder. It rained quite a bit yesterday evening and night. Ruth and I went to our s.s. and church this morning. We sang in the choir. Not such a big crowd as was rainy etc. I’ll go to Westminster this evening and we’ll probably study some afterwards. Ruth goes to Topeka this afternoon on that volunteer program for the mental hospital. John Durden brought us up on the hill and I ate at the union. Tues morning I have the first dental appointment and then will vote. Tues night will probably go to either Ernies or the union for an election night party. Ruth’s brother Eldon his wife and son will be in Oberlin next weekend so she’s going home to see them. It makes a long weekend trip but she hasn’t seen them since last Christmas. I have been invited to go also so guess thats where I’ll be next weekend. We’ll leave by bus about 6:00 on Fri and get there in the middle of the night. We’ll come back by train and get here early Mon morning. This means I’ll have to study pretty hard this week. Let me know details about Thanksgiving vacation etc. Got another little part of quiz back this week and he said it was A another part was B but since the whole medical class did poorly on it we take that part of the quiz over.Yesterday morning slept late and then ate at union. Went downtown and picked up my 2<sup>nd</sup> best shoes which I had had half soled. They were the ones that were ripping apart and was the only thing to do $2.75. The trip to Oberlin will cost $12-$15 or so I imagine. Yesterday afternoon I went over to Sellards and helped for 2 hours on their homecoming decorations. Since all the girls have to work so many hours this 2 hours I worked was credited to Ruth and saved her that much time. Ate at the union again and then I went back over about 8:30 and we walked to the P.O. and mailed a letter to her folks. It rained as we walked back. We talked awhile on our front porch at union and since she was tired I left about 11:30.Fri was classes all day and in the evening we went to see the foreign movie at Hoch Auditorium. The movie was the 1932 German Comedy The Captain from Kopenick. You might remember the incident. It was when the impositer in the German officers uniform actually took charge of the city officials etc. Thurs morning went downtown after seminar, got haircut etc. ate downtown and spent afternoon at home as stomach and intestines didn’t feel so good etc. The Orchestra Thurs night was real good and the auditorium was full. <footnote>Grandmother made ink marks in the margins on either side of the following sentence. </footnote> As to Ruth and I, unless there’s an abrupt change, which I don’t expect, I guess she will be the “one and only.”
<v-row><letter-image :sources="['1653cbe558888ddab4e87773d8ae4211_html_5ae65f65.jpg']" ></letter-image></v-row>
Hope you’re all OK. Sorry Bertha couldn’t come and hope you had a good convention. Ruth went to the one at Topeka awhile last Fri morning.

</letter>
<letter date="11-8-56" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

Classes Mon and we studied in the evening. Tues went to Dentist voted went to lecture at 1:00. Studied, mailed letter to M.J. etc. Westudied in the evening and then went by Ernies awhile, listened to election returns and went to election night party at union for awhile. Yesterday was classes and we studied in the evening. This morning went to seminar and then studied at union and just ate there. Will go to lecture at 1 and then study. Tomorrow will retake quiz that got B- on. If improve will get higher grade. After those first round of tests my grades are mostly a B average. Tonight will study. Ruth wants to see the “King and I” so I may take her down and then study at city library. Tomorrow is classes and then we go to Manhatten at 6:00 where Kenneth Urban (Ruth’s sister-in-laws brother) will take us on to Oberlin. It has been a lot colder here. This weekend is homecoming and the last home football game so we’ll miss it all. Hope you’re all OK and say hello to Aunt Clara.

</letter>
<letter date="11-12-56" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

It is warmer today and clear. Last Thurs night I took Ruth down to “The King and I” and then went to the library, studied and came back and picked her up afterwards. She enjoyed it too. When we got back to her house the girls were putting up their homecoming decorations. Fri was classes all day. I walked over to Sellards to save cab fare and we took a cab down to the bus station. I ate before we left but Ruth didn’t have time. The bus was a little late and we got to Manhattan about 8:30. Kenneth Urban met us and we got to Oberlin about 12:30. Its 350 miles from here. We stopped for coffee and something to eat at Beloit. Mrs. Laidig was up and we talked awhile. The older boy Dallas came in during that time. She had a lot of things scattered around the living room, papers and things she was working on but had them picked up by yesterday. She’s like you in always being busy doing something. There house is nothing fancy but there are the 4 children still there.We all had breakfast Sat morning, did the dishes, talked etc. and had lunch early since the boys work on Sat at the grocery store. We talked after lunch and then I listened to some of our football game while Ruth took her 92 year old grandmother downtown. We drove around town after that and saw the points of interest. We went through her dad’s school where she also went to grade school. After that we drove out in the country to the Urbans. Mary Jane Urban is the wife of Ruth’s brother Eldon who is in the coast guard at Galveston and hadn’t been home for 1½ years. There 3 year old son <footnote>(Larry)</footnote>  is real cute. We ate dinner and then took the girl Deloris Musgrave to a friends house and then stopped and saw the new library on the way back. We stayed at home during the evening and I studied some. Mr. and Mrs. Laidig took Danny Musgrave, the youngest of the boys, to the show. We had popcorn later in the evening and all to bed.Yesterday morning had breakfast at 9:00 and went to church for the 10:30 choir rehersal. We sang in the choir and they had as many as we have in Lawrence. It is a Presbyterian church and the building is quite old. There were 21 for dinner afterwards. Mr. Laidig had cooked a turkey. Everyone visited most of the afternoon. We ate some before leaving with Kenneth at 6:00. We got within 80 miles of Manhatten when some nuts came loose on the engine and we had to leave the car at a garage in Glasco. Kenneth and his brother Milton had worked on the car in the afternoon and had forgotten to tighten some nuts. As a result the oil leaked out and it will cost him $25 or so. I paid about $4 and Ruth $1 on gas for both ways. It would have cost a lot more to have gone by train and bus all the way. We used the garage’s car and drove on to Manhatten. We missed the 11:00 bus to Lawrence but made the 1:30 one and got here by 3:30 <footnote>(AM)</footnote> . Ruth had called her housemother earlier from Oberlin so after arriving she called her again to let her in. We went out by cab and I came home. I went to class this morning and will study tonight and tomorrow for neurology quiz on Wed. I have plenty of studying between now and Thanksgiving. I have dentist tomorrow at 10 and Thurs at 11:00. He pulled Wisdom tooth the 1<sup>st</sup> time and filled the big cavity. Will have to miss the CROP drive tomorrow night at church. Hope you’re all OK and say hello to all.

</letter>
<letter date="11-15-56" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

Have just come from a lecture on the ear which I didn’t need to attend. It snowed some this morning and is cold and windy. It was warmer the last 2 days. This morning went to seminar, sent 17 shirts to laundry, went to dentist, had shoes sewed up, ate downtown and then to lecture. Will study rest of day and start washing. Let me know exact time etc. to be in K City and what clothes you think I should take. Yesterday was ½ hr quiz in neurology which I think I got OK. Classes all day and we studied in evening. Ruth came to library at 8 after her women’s meeting. Her grades are all As and Bs so far. Will write her mother a thank you note. She has another meeting tonight. I missed the men’s brotherhood. Tues was dentist and then studied. Missed crop drive and choir. Will go with Ruth to Presbyterian church Sun as her room has to take their housemother and the girls want to take their boyfriends. Sat night is buffet dinner at Sellards. We studied last Mon night. Tell Aunt Clara hello and hope everythings alright.

</letter>
<letter date="11-23-56" variation="standard" :has-footnote="true">
<template #footnote>

Grandmother’s summary says: “about Thanksgiving at Leila’s”

</template>
Studied after you left Wed night and listened to radio. Thurs morning read paper and rested. Leila called about 11:30 and wanted to know if I could bring some tricks. I told her that all my good little tricks were in Lawrence. Mr. Drasch? came by about 12 and she had a good dinner etc. We all talked awhile and then rode around town till about 3. They brought me by here and I did nothing much till supper. Studied all evening. This morning studied a little and went downtown this afternoon. Bought 3 undershirts. You will have to get the name of the publisher for that music. See Ray Haworth for it. Put the money in the bank. Met Clyde Z in the bank and he offered me a ride back to Lawrence this afternoon which I accepted. Hope you had a nice trip. I broke the clock key. Soft water tank came today. <footnote>On the back of this piece of paper is the following list. It sounds like instructions to Dad: Leave light in SE bedroom curtains down – Front curtains medium height – Be sure electric heater off and burners – Leave furnace 68-70%</footnote>

</letter>
<letter date="11-25-56" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

Have just returned from working awhile in lab. Will work this afternoon and evening. Had a good trip up with Clyde yesterday. I ate a lot before leaving and we stopped at Emporia for a sandwich. He graduates in Jan and may go to law school. Left at 4 and got here at 8:30. After that I unpacked and read a little. Ralph is putting in his furnace and was sawing and hamering this morning. I had a letter from Ruth yesterday and she said they made it OK arriving home at 3:15 <footnote>(AM) </footnote> Her mother was still up as you would have been. She’s leaving at 1:00 PM tomorrow to come back. She has that practice from 7:30-10 so will see her then. Just received your card from Chicago. Since missed postman will take downtown to mail. Hope everything goes OK and you had a nice trip. Studied rest of day Sat and went to church this morning and sang in the choir. (Sun night now.)

</letter>
<letter date="11-27-56" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

Is clear today but cold. Received your 2 cards and was glad to hear that everything went OK. Will be anxious to hear the details. Sun afternoon stayed here and studied a little. Went downtown, mailed your card and ate there. Came back and went to open house at Ernies at 8:00. Played games and ping pong. Ken and Elisabeth were here Sun before last but I missed them. I left Ernies at 9:30 and went to Lindley <footnote>(Lindley Hall on KU campus) </footnote> to pick up Ruth after their A Cappella practice. She had arrived at 8:30. They changed the other 2 patches on the shirt and it all looks OK. She said she didn’t think anything about you not doing it. She knew you were busy. We talked awhile. Yesterday was classes and we studied in the evening. Today have studied and gone to building. Will go to choir tonight with Durden. Will sing some Messiah for Christmas. Am pretty much caught up in studying. Hope you and Aunt Clara get rested OK from trip.

</letter>
<letter date="12-2-56" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

Have just finished reading your clippings. Will send them on to M.J. Have not received your letter from her as yet. That Virginia K lives at the same hall as Ruth as I may have told you. Fri night we went to the city library awhile. Ruth had to return some books she had checked out from there. We came back to Sellards and she played the piano and I sang some. Sat morning I worked at the lab for 3 hours and we then went to the opening afternoon session of the state Baptist Student Movement Conference. There was an opening talk and then a conference and song service. We had a ride back up on the hill. I went over to Sellards at 7:30 and we looked at some slides of Gary Corman. He is a graduate student and the boyfriend of Mary Roger one of Ruth’s roommates. We went to see “Guys and Dolls” at 9:30 with them and stopped for something to eat on the way back.This morning we went to s.s. which was led by one of the men here for the conference. We sang in choir of which there were 25 – biggest so far this year for us. We ate downtown afterwards and rode the bus back up on the hill. She went to the Topeka hospital this afternoon and I’ll go to Westminster this evening since there is no Roger Williams. Tomorrow night is the 1<sup>st</sup> basketball game but doubt if we’ll go since so many things on between now and Christmas and need the study time. I’m more or less caught up in studying but each day adds a lot of new material. Our big exam is the last day before Christmas vacation on Wed. That is Dec. 19 so I can come home that evening. I should study French over vacation and review everything covered since there’s little or no time for review before the final. I won’t have to be back for class till Fri Jan 4<sup>th</sup>. We have 3 weeks after that with the Final written examination in all subjects on Mon. Jan 28<sup>th</sup>. Next semesters classes begin on Jan 31<sup>st</sup> Thurs. That is the day I have to give the seminar in Kan City. <footnote>Grandmother makes ink marks in the margins next to the following 2 sentences. </footnote> What about you meeting Ruth? If you’re interested in coming up here I think the Christmas Vespers is 2 weeks from this afternoon.All the banks here charge for checks so I guess it is a common practice. Glad your trip was OK and will be anxious to hear the details. No need to feel embarrassed about the shirt according to Ruth. My blue plaid shirt still has holes in the sleeve. It has been warm yesterday and today after being very cold. It is supposed to get cold again tomorrow. Sorry to hear about Russell Decker. There is always a lot of disease in foreign countries. Guess I’ll walk down and mail this so you’ll get it tomorrow. Mr. Ring is working this afternoon putting in his furnace its quite a job. Hope you feel OK and tell Aunt Clara hello.<b>Thurs noon – </b>It has been cold for a couple of days after the warm spell. It rained Tues evening. We studied Mon night and went to choir practice with the Durdens Tues night. Last night she had a meeting 1<sup>st</sup> and then came over to the library. The studying is piling up and will continue till the final. So much material even though I’m not taking near all the medical students. I don’t see how they do it. Am studying today and Tomorrow night is tree trimming party at Sellards. Sat we go to K City with the Durdens to see the Ice Skating Show. Sun afternoon is choir concert, a week from Sun is the vespers. Then Christmas dance is the 14<sup>th</sup>. Will start reviewing for test next week. As you see I’ll be plenty busy with all this. Received the letter from M.J and your card. I don’t know what about the French. There is so much reviewing and studying I should do over vacation. Hope you’re all OK.

</letter>
<letter date="12-9-56" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

Last Fri was classes. Received your letter and clippings. Was sorry to hear about Uncle Bill. I sent the letter to M.J. right away and the card to Aunt Margaret. Fri night I went over to Sellards about 9:00 for their tree trimming party. Helped some and then had refreshments and stayed there till about 11:30 and came home. It was sleeting by the time I had started home and by yesterday morning there was sleet, ice and snow on the ground and it was much colder. Yesterday we finally decided it would be best not to try to make it to K City. The ice show was at 2:30 and so we wasted $6 worth of tickets for the 4 of us. I didn’t particularly care although John’s wife was anxious to go anyway. We could probably have made it but it would have been so slow and dark by the time we would have gotten back.We all went to see “War and Peace.” It lasted all afternoon and they brought us back on the hill. We had eaten lunch with them before going down to the show. They live in one of those apartments in sunnyside. We ate supper (Ruth and I) at the union and spent the rest of evening till 11:30 at her house listening to KU basketball game, music, and my A Cappella choir records which I had brought back. Lee Murray came over awhile Fri evening around 6 and brought back some of my magic books and took some more that he hadn’t read. I guess he getting quite good at card tricks and fools a lot of the boys in his dorm. His interview for medical school is soon and I told him to relax with magic now as he wouldn’t have any time after he got in medical school.This morning we didn’t make it in time for s.s. but sang in choir etc. We sang something from the Messiah and today was communion Sunday. Rode back on hill with the Cecil Caldwells. I ate alone at union and am home now till time to go to Hoch to hear the fall concert of the A Cappella Choir. Don’t where we’ll go tonight. Have slide session Mon and Thurs nights this next week. That’s where we all go over slides (microscope) together. Wed night the graduate students in Neurology will have a special. I raised that B- to an A in the physiology and got a 95 on the last short exam in neurology. This means I have a good chance for an A in neurology but have B in the other 2 classes. Our Christmas caroling is a week from Tues the night before the exam so won’t be able to go I guess. Not sure I’ll go to choir practice this Tues. Fri night is Ruth’s Christmas formal. Sat night Durden wants a magic show for his Jr. High group and Sun is the Christmas vespers. Thats all up to now. Hope alls OK there.

</letter>
<letter date="12-13-56" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

It is cold and clear but is snowed again some yesterday afternoon. Sun night we went to Roger Williams and stayed to help with dishes. Molly and Vaughn Moore had us over a few minutes afterwards. They brought us back on hill. Mon night studied. Tues studied and went to choir practice and back to library. Yesterday evening had neurology session for graduate students. Neurology quiz is right after vacation. Today is study/slide session tonight. Tomorrow is their Christmas formal. Sat free and show at night. Bob Volle (the other graduate student) is staying here tonight ($1) as he would be so late and have to come back for classes in the morning. The sewer backed up some on the floor the other night but Ralph got it fixed. The dinner for all people in the house given by the Rings is next Tues night. Hope you’re all OK. See you next week.

</letter>
<letter date="12-17-56" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

I didn’t get those last clippings sent on to M.J. so will just bring them on home. Fri evening studied early and went to Sellards for their formal. We never danced once, she had to take care of punch etc. She knows I can’t dance very well. All the girls gave their boyfriends stockings and candy etc. I had 4 tricks in mine and we messed around with those etc.
<v-row><letter-image :sources="['1653cbe558888ddab4e87773d8ae4211_html_fe966472.jpg']" ></letter-image></v-row>
Sat morning was slide session and then studied in library during afternoon. Gave show in evening, only a few there and had seen some of tricks and awful noisy (Jr. High). Afterwards listened to KU-Washington game at Sellards with Ruth.  She went to church for show. Went down with Durdens and Caldwells. Yesterday morning didn’t make it to s.s. but we sang in choir. 25 again and sang 2 #s from Messiah. Studied yesterday afternoon while Ruth sang. Went to Westminster and ate and then went to vespers and studied a little afterwards. I was tired last night after all that. Study and classes today and study all day tomorrow. Be home on usual train Wed night. Love, Carroll<footnote>According to Mom, sometime before her birthday in January Dad said, “When should we get married?”</footnote>

</letter>