# 1957

A very eventful year indeed, in which Mom and Dad have to reassure their parents that they really are sure they really do want to get married (after knowing each other for less than a year). Dad is proven once and for all to be an above average student. Quite a lot of rabbits get quite a lot of injections of schizophrenic serum. There is a bit of drama about a wedding venue and a best man. And somehow, in the midst of all the classes, labs, lectures, libraries, dental appointments (!), church services, choir rehearsals, meetings, concerts, movies, plays, dinners, football games, basketball games, trains, busses, and cars (it makes me tired just reading about it all) they manage to conceive a child. After the wedding, of course. But just barely 

<letter date="1-3-57" variation="standard">

Dear Mother, I’m at home this morning reviewing for the exam. I’m in the room with the telephone and the stove is on so its not cold. Mr. Ring has his new furnace in. We had a good trip up yesterday. They switched the 2 cars onto the other train so we stayed in the same seats. With all our baggage it would have been a long walk at Newton. Got here about 11:45 and had to wait awhile for a cab as everyone else got ahead of us. We rode up on hill and got out at respective houses and then came back and ate at union. I went to review session from 2-4 and rested till supper. We ate downtown and then studied at the city library and union. I’ll be reviewing all day today and quiz tomorrow. I think that’s all the quizes till the finals. I may have to be on the program at Roger Williams Sun night as the graduate commission has the program. I’ll probably wash this weekend and send shirts. Hope your school went OK and say hello to Aunt Clara.

</letter>
<letter date="No Date" variation="standard">

Dear Mrs. Smith, We were lucky. The car we were in was hooked onto the streamliner, so we didn’t have to change at Newton. At first the car didn’t have any heat in it. I thought my imagination was working overtime until I saw Carroll’s breath as he talked. But they soon fixed it and the rest of the trip was very comfortable. After lunch (which we ate at the Union), Carroll went to a review session. I came home and unpacked and washed clothes. This is the first time in the three years I’ve been in college that I’ve gotten my suitcases put in the luggage room the same day I got here. I must be improving.I had planned a nap this afternoon, but my roommates wanted to talk about vacations so I never did get to sleep. Pretty soon (in about twenty minutes) we’re going to go eat and then study. I’m not sure what will be available in the way of studying places, but I think we’ll try Myers Hall, the School of Religion. Thank you so much for giving me a chance to meet Carroll’s family. I’ve been hearing about all of you for months, and now I’ve finally gotten somewhat acquainted with you. As you already know, I really appreciated getting to see all those pictures of Carroll! I seem to be running out of paper, so I’d better stop now. Thanks, again! Sincerely, Ruth

</letter>
<letter date="1-6-57" variation="standard">

I suppose you’re at home this afternoon also writing a letter. There was some wet snow on the ground this morning but it is all gone now and is still cloudy. It warmed up some yesterday. We went to Crossroads Seminar this morning. That is the Sun morning Presbyterian group comparable to our s.s. Mrs. Patton teaches it and there were only about 20 there. Ruth said last year when she was president of it there were usually 45-50. Celeste (Mrs. Patton) had asked her to say a few words on something but they didn’t get around to her this morning. We walked downtown and went to church at the 1<u>st</u> Presbyterian. Tonight we go to Roger Williamssince the graduate commission is supposed to have the program. It will be on the hydrogen bomb. They served some breakfast at the Crossroads. I ate at the union with Dean Smith. This afternoon I’m taking it easy and will finish the washing I started yesterday. Mostly towels etc. I’ll have to send shirts this week as I wore the last white shirt today and it had a bad collar. I’ve worn all 3 new shirts already and like the wool one of yours very much. I’ve worn it 2 or 3 times.I studied last Thurs and then Fri was classes and the exam. I fell to a 71 on the last practical exam from an 80. Everyone did poorly and I hope I still have a B. I haven’t seen any of the written pts yet. <footnote>

  Grandmother made ink marks in the margins next to the following two sentences. 

</footnote>The quiz in the afternoon went like most. I left off some things I knew real well and missed some I should have known.Big quizes are week from tomorrow I guess and then 2 days to prepare for seminar in K City. Will present my thesis. We studied at library Fri night, I messed around with some card tricks at her house afterwards. Sat morning I slept late and then we went downtown and ate down there. She had to be at union at 1:00 to read to that blind boy. I went to the building in the afternoon and got some references and talked to Durden and some of the boys in pharmacology. Came home and started washing. We went with Ruth’s roommate Mary Roger and her boyfriend (graduate student Gary Corman) to the Missouri-KU basketball game. We won as you know if you listened. The K State-KU game is next Sat. It was full with 17,000. We went by a drive in afterwards. Tell Aunt Clara hello and hope everything is OK.

</letter>
<letter date="1-9-57" variation="standard">

Is very cold today and it may snow tonight. As I said I did only fair on the quizes haven’t got all of them back. Got 95 on 1 question but did worse on the others. Missed several questions on quiz after vacation that I knew answers too. Guess I was pretty nervous. Had polio and flu shots yesterday. There are 2 more polio shots in the series. Studied yesterday some with Ruth in Bailey (the education building). She has a lot of studying and things to get in this week. Went to choir practice last night and studied at home awhile. The program Sunday night went OK. We studied at library afterwards. Mon was classes and we studied at the library in the evening. I’m invited to eat dinner at Sellards tomorrow night. That is their guest night. There will be another guest there I guess besides me. Hope you’re all OK.

</letter>
<letter date="1-13-57" variation="standard">

Its been very cold here for several days we had a little snow but it is gone now. I’m not sure I told you but I wrote a letter to Aunt Nellie last Sun afternoon. The basement is warm enough but gets chilly at times. I’m in the other room now at the desk and with the gas heater on. I studied all day here last Thurs and kept the heater on all the time and it was still chilly.Ruth and I went to Crossroads again this morning and then saw Miss Cass and had a ride down to church. We had two anthems and I was in a short quartet for one of them. Good crowd and sermon but only 2 basses. John Durden and myself and 3 or 4 tenors. We rode back on the hill with Cecil Caldwell, John and their wives. I ate at the union (The steak which looked done on the outside was raw on the inside) and have been home all afternoon resting and studying. Ruth went to Topeka this afternoon and is babysitting this evening for her old band teacher from Oberlin so I won’t see her this evening. I guess I’ll walk down to mail this and then go to Roger Williams. I’ll study here this evening afterwards.Our final practical lab exam is a week from Friday and the final written 2 weeks from tomorrow. I’m starting to review tomorrow night. The regular finals start this Thurs for everyone else. Since Ruth has so many courses she has 3 finals on one day. I guess she still has As and Bs in everything. Although I fell down more than most of the graduates on the last Embryology written exam I found out that I had a 90 on the 1<u>st</u> one which was highest among 10. Histology is a B I guess. I haven’t heard on the last neurology exam. I suppose if I got everything perfect I could make an A in all but at least I hope for Bs in all if I do reasonably well. If I can just keep calm etc. Yesterday morning I slept late and then Ruth and I went downtown and I helped her pick out a set of cuff links and tie clasp for her brother Eldon’s birthday. That’s the one in the coast guard at Galveston. Her birthday is next Fri and I told her if she wants a ring now to decide by then. The only reason she didn’t want an engagement ring was to save my money. We ate downtown (she paid hers) and then I stayed home the rest of the afternoon. I spent the evening at Sellards we listened to the K State-KU game here which we won and she changed the buttons on the wool shirt of yours and the one she made. The sleeves were slightly long and fell down over my hand. I’ve been wearing the 3 new shirts all the time. Last Thurs I was dressed up and the other boy wasn’t at their guest night. The girls don’t dress always but I thought I should. Last night I also did some card tricks and we looked at my sheet music. Fri was classes and we studied some in the evening. I received your card yesterday and hope you and Aunt Clara are both OK. One boy here had 13 hours of A in German and flunked the PHD quiz. Another took it 4 times. I figure 2 months next summer of study on German.

</letter>
<letter date="1-17-57" variation="standard">

Received your letter yesterday. Today the sun is shining and it is somewhat warmer although still plenty cold. There has been no break in the bitter cold for several days. Bob Volle (the graduate student from K.C. who commutes) stayed here last night so he could study last night and today here and not be bothered by anyone. He said Mr. Ring bothered him yesterday evening as he came down and talked and started cleaning things. I guess he was embarrased (Sp?) or Mrs. Ring made. I told Bob earlier that she didn’t allow smoking. He talked to Mr. Ring and he said to do what he wanted too but when he smoked later in the evening Mrs. Ring smelled it immediately and yelled down about it. He said he wouldn’t stay again tonight because of that. I left him in bed this morning and he left his dollar payment and was gone when I got back this noon. Regular classes ended yesterday and finals started today. Ruth has none today but 3 on one day next week. Her Mother and father will be in Topeka either next Sat or the next (I forget) and she may go over to see them. <footnote>

  Grandmother made ink marks in the margins next to the following 2 sentences. 

</footnote>She called home and her father said, as you – are you very sure. She said yes, as I say also.Last Sun I walked to P.O. in bitter cold and mailed your letter and a note to Lee Hammonds and back to Roger Williams where I led the singing. Came back home and Ruth called saying she could leave her sitting job early as a woman next door would check on the children. I went buy and took her home. Mon was classes and we studied in evening. Studied Tues and nothing special as didn’t go to choir practice. Yesterday classes and studied in the evening.Bob Volle is going to check with Dr. Peters on the seminar and he may not want me to give it since I’ll only have 2 days preparation after finals. Dr. Peters cracked down on all members of the department saying they were all doing very poor jobs on seminars etc. Bob said I had no real obligation since I’m not receiving any money from the department. Will have to go to K.C. and also enroll here on the 29<u>th</u> and 30<u>th</u>. The seminar would be on 30<u>th</u> the 1<u>st</u> day of classes. As I said when I was home Christmas I can’t come then but some weekend after. I thought I might try for the French quiz given on Sat Feb 16. The next one is Sat May 4<u>th</u>. I suppose I could come home the weekend before the 16<u>th</u> and study there. I’ll let you know.Ruth was impressed with everything in Hutchinson including you. I think we both have very similar backgrounds and Mothers. She is not as set a Presbyterian as you think. We kid like that a lot. After I get finals over we’ll talk to Ernie about it. I asked Ernie and he said most American Baptist churches take in Presbyterians. They call it an associate membership but you have rights like any other member. I’m sure she’ll go along with this when the time comes. <footnote>

  Or perhaps you will become a Presbyterian instead 

</footnote> At Sellards they have a custom of passing a candle to announce engagements and tomorrow seemed to be the nicest time as she’ll be gone the last half of the spring semester. I need some money and could use some of that in Central State. Hope you and Aunt Clara are OK. Polio shots are not required but one is foolish not to take them. Ruth kept after me till I finally went over. They only cost $1.50 each for the 3. I got a flu shot at same time and it didn’t bother me. I did have a little sore throat for a couple of days.

</letter>
<letter date="1-19-57" variation="standard">

Its Sat night (7:30) and I’m waiting for Ruth and her parents to come by for me. It was today that they came to Topeka. Ruth went over this morning on the bus and they came back about 5:30 I guess. I don’t know what we’re going to do this evening. I went to a review session this morning at 9:00 AM and have studied the rest of the day. Received your letter today. Sorry to hear about Uncle Clyde and hope he gets along OK. I guess that’s better than having one on the inside. It warmed up yesterday quite a bit but is a little colder this evening and was cloudy today.I told Bob Volle yesterday to tell them I’d better not try the seminar this time. Bob had talked with Dr. Huggens and he said he wouldn’t expect me to do it with 2 days preparation. Dr. Huggens is in charge of the seminars and is very nice about such things. After Bob said Dr. Peters criticized all of them I felt it best not to try it with less than 2 days preparation. I’ll still have to go to K City either on the 29<u>th</u> or 30<u>th</u> and will enroll on the other day. I can use a day of vacation and might start on the French. That weekend of Feb 2<u>nd</u> and 3<u>rd</u> might be the best to come home or I suppose the next one would be OK too. Let me know what is best for you. I’ll send a birthday card to M.J. so don’t need to send one to me.Ruth and I went downtown Thurs afternoon after studying and looked at some rings. The stores closed on us so we ate down there and came back and studied some. She bought a candle some ribbon and some chocolates to pass. (Its now Mon). Fri was classes and then we went downtown and bought a ring. Both rings were $165 and I paid $50 and said I’d pay the rest as soon as I got the money out of savings. I wrote to Central State Bank. If they won’t mail it I suppose you or I’ll have to go by to get it. The ring is a solitaire and the diamond about ¼ caret. She said she would have felt guilty if it had been any more. I told her she could have had a better one if she wanted it. Both rings have the inside spring things that keep it on tight regardless of the size of the finger. The ring was from a jewelry here. That evening at dinner they brought (I wasn’t there) in her birthday cake (which she cut) and then Mother Hopper started the candle. Although they acted like it was going by her she blew it out. One of her roommates read a poem and put the ring on her finger. I guess she then passed the chocolates. The candle was white with a blue ribbon (my favorite color) and she saved some chocolates and a piece of cake for me. I guess she wasn’t too nervous. <footnote>

  Grandmother made ink marks in the margins next to the following 3 sentences. 

</footnote>I received your letter today. Thank you for the nice note. I can assure you that we’re both sure and that we’ll do the best we can to live the best possible kind of life.Fri night we all went to the show to see Walt Disney’s Fantasia. Ruth’s Mother gave her a knitted white button on sweater for her birthday and I guess they looked at wedding dresses in Topeka. Sun morning we went to Crossroads. Mr. Laidig didn’t go and then to the Baptist Church. We sang in choir and I was needed as there was only one other bass. We all ate downtown afterwards. They left shortly and I stayed home during the afternoon. In the evening we went to Westminster and then studied awhile at library. I think it best that I don’t give seminar now. I’ll give one next semester when I have more time and can do a better job. Let me know about coming home. Classes thru Wed and then am skipping 2 meetings in K City and Topeka where they see clinical neurological cases. I think I can get more by studying on my own. It has warmed up today (Mon) and has been blowing. One week and one hour from right now I’ll be all thru. Hope all are OK. The picture was taken at that party at Sellards.

</letter>
<letter date="1-25-57" variation="standard">

We had about 4 inches of snow day before yesterday and today its real slick as its kinda sleeting or something. Was supposed to go to Topeka this morning to see cases of neurological disease.  Didn’t go as felt could do better by studying on own. Yesterday was last day of classes. Had a review session at a fellow’s house last night from 9:00 PM to 1:00 AM, so slept a little later this morning. Had class Tues morning and studied with Ruth in the library in the afternoon and evening. I’m so tired of studying this stuff. Am sure next semester will be more interesting and my time will be more flexible and free. Ruth wants us to go with her roommate and boyfriend to Topeka next Tues. Will enroll Wed and go to K.C. on Thurs. Could come home Fri if you want me then. This afternoon are review sessions and 2 hrs practical tomorrow afternoon. Hope you’re all OK.

</letter>
<letter date="1-28-57" variation="standard">

I’ll write what I can. I just finished the 2<u>nd</u> 3 hour written exam and its all over for anatomy (Thank goodness). The last month has been a real drag and I have all the anatomy I’ll ever need. Just talked to Dr. Roofe (head of department of Anatomy) and he said he wished I was in anatomy ha! ha! I just checked on the neurology practical and I had a 90 which was high among the 7 or 8 graduate students. Am not sure what I did on everything else but think I did OK.Tonight will relax and then tomorrow downtown in the morning. Received $175 from Central State so will pay off the jeweler. Tomorrow afternoon we’re going to K City with Ruths roommate and her boyfriend. I’ll try to see Dr. Peters and line up courses so can enroll on Wed. Will try to start French after that. Will plan to come home that weekend you mentioned. It has been cold here for many days and the ice is real bad. I haven’t fallen yet but have come close several times. Yesterday we went to church and sang in choir. Once again only 2 basses and Ruth was one of the 3 altos. I hadn’t gone to rehersal of course. We ate downtown with Mary and Gary (her rommate) and they brought us back to her house. I studied all afternoon and then we ate at Westminster. We didn’t stay for program so I could go home and study.<footnote>

  Grandmother made ink marks in the margins next to the following 4 sentences. 

</footnote>Ruth got 19 hours of A and 3 hrs of B – her best grade average ever so I guess I didn’t distract her too much. Her dad has ordered the new car for graduation. Don’t know what about a “date” yet. She wants to have John Patten the Presbyterian Student Pastor.Sat I slept late and we ate at union. I studied at home in afternoon and Sat evening studied with Ruth in union. They didn’t serve meals at Sellards between semesters. Fri morning I studied and Bob Volle (he stayed Thurs night with me as was icy and didn’t want to drive home and come back Fri for quiz) and Ruth and I ate at union. The practical was in afternoon and I studied in union during the evening. Sorry you have another vacant apartment. Ruth said the Dr. told her dad he has some arthritus. You might as well tell M.J. I guess for now. I’ll write her sometime too. The ring is yellow gold and is square and not too ornate. I have the wedding ring and could wear the KU ring on right hand. I’ll check with Dr. Peters about German etc. Tell Aunt Clara hello. Hope you’re OK.

</letter>
<letter date="1-30-57" variation="standard">

Dear Mrs. Smith, Thank you so much for the lovely placemats. People have been awfully good to me lately, that is, they’ve helped my hope chest a lot. Today has been one of those “lazy” days. All graduating seniors in the school of education are required to have physical examinations, so I had mine this morning. There were endless lines, so it took about two hours. This afternoon I cleaned the accumulation of last semester’s things off my desk, mopped the floor and took a nap. We have to have our room inspected before classes start, so we’ve divided up the various tasks. Mine happened to be to clean the floors. This room is the cleanest it’s been in a long time!Yesterday my roommate, her boyfriend, Carroll and I went to Kansas City. Carroll talked to Dr. Peters and then showed me around the pharmacology department. I went to the two biggest fabric shops and then we ate supper at a Katy drugstore. After that we went to a double feature, “The Opposite Sex” and “The Last Hunt.” We had to leave in the middle of the second one. We couldn’t find our highway and for a while we thought we might be late, but we made it back with twenty minutes to spare. It’s midnight and classes start again tomorrow, so perhaps I’d better go to bed. Thanks again! Sincerely, Ruth

</letter>
<letter date="2-1-57" variation="standard">

It has been somewhat warmer the last 2 days but is cloudy and cold today. There is still quite a bit of snow on the ground and a lot of ice still on the sidewalks. I will come home a week from today on the usual train. I got the A in neurology as I figured I would but a B in histology. I guess I was on the border line between an A and B in there but the only 2 A’s were to graduate students in anatomy I think. Am not sure about the embryology grade. It will probably be a B. (I hope)Last Mon after writing you I ate and then Ruth and I went to the show (“The Iron Petticoat”). Tues morning I went downtown. Left some cleaning cashed the check $175 paid off the ring, got a haircut and bought a birthday card for M.J. Ruth had to remind me as usual. Got the Sun letter off yesterday finally. Ate at union Tues noon and then we all went to K City as Ruth probably explained in her letter. I saw Dr. Peters and signed the withholding slips and loyalty oath <footnote>

  (?)

</footnote>. The $150 a month starts today but will stop next summer if I take the summer off from regular classes. I switched my minor from biochemistry to physiology. This seemed to be best as they have been pretty rough on biochem minors and I can get a physiology with one more course (5 hrs) which I’m taking along with the 3 hr biochemistry course Nucleic Acids. This will finish all course work in Lawrence.Tues the girls shopped and we went to a drive in movie in the evening. Wed I enrolled in the morning and Lee Murray came by in the afternoon and showed me some of his new tricks. He said Jack Tanner had decided not to put in the new store so it should make it easier on his dad. Took it easy Wed evening and saw Ruth about 9:30. My intestine was hurting as it used too. Dr. Peters called me in the evening and told me to switch to the other physiology course which he thought would be better for me. I going to audit the biochemistry course I had 3 yrs ago.Yesterday morning we met for nucleic acids (only 3 in class) and in afternoon went to building and saw Dr. Wenzel. Just received my card for grades and it had Neurology A+ and Micro Anatomy B+ (this includes Histology and Embryology I guess) a little more work I would have had all A’s but I’m satisfied. Will have to work hard this semester to get a B in nucleic acids as I’ve been away from biochem for 3 yrs. Yesterday evening I studied French. I guess I’ll try the exam in 2 wks. Ruth wants to have her 3 roommates in our wedding. One of them is from Sweden and will be gone in August so it looks like June will be the time. John Patten will be gone right after commencement. When will your school be out? I’ll have to write M.J. and see when they could get away. Hope you’re all OK.

</letter>
<letter date="2-4-57" variation="standard">

Its still cloudy today but somewhat warmer and the snow is just about gone. Received your letter this noon. This morning went to physiology from 8:30 to 10. It meets 3 days a week and for an hour every 3<u>rd</u> Sat. It is all lecture with outside readings and no lab. I’m auditing the biochem course I took 3 yrs ago it meets at 1:00 on M W F and then I sit in on another physiology class just after that from 2-3. This should give me plenty of review and coverage for my minor. The nucleic acids lecture is Tues morning from 10-12 and the lab on Thurs. I’m studying French but the words are so hard to remember. I’ll have to study on it at home this weekend. Tonight we go to see the musical Of Thee I Sing here at Frazer Theater. That’s like the “Pink Lady” I was in one time. Yesterday we sang in choir. 8 boys this time and more women. It was communion Sun. Durden brought us on the hill and I ate at union alone and in the afternoon washed underwear, socks, etc. <footnote>

  Still doing laundry I see 

</footnote>My radio doesn’t work too well and gives out with a loud roar. Didn’t feel too good all weekend as belched and intestines hurt etc. Guess its partly in my head. Sun evening we went to Roger Williams. 2 colored students from Africa talked about their countries etc. There was a short baptismal service afterwards. We studied at library after that. Sat morning slept late and didn’t do much during afternoon as didn’t feel so good. Listened to game over radio with Ruth in their recreation room and then we went downtown and ate some ice cream etc. Fri was classes and we studied at library in the evening.What do you mean that is near the time for M.J. to do what? <footnote>

  (Apparently Dad doesn’t yet know that M.J. is pregnant.) 

</footnote>As I said earlier Ruth’s parents will be gone from middle of June to middle of August. I told Dr. Peters I would be able to learn German 2 ways one with a tutor or by taking a formal course. I might study German 2 months and work a month for Murray. If we’re married and could scrounge up some furniture we could live in one of the apartments this summer and pay you rent. Dr. Peters said to start in at K.C. on Sept 1<u>st</u> so as I’ve said before I plan to be in Hutchinson until then either working or studying German. It has been cold and damp here too and I’ll be glad when the cold weather is over. Tell Aunt Clara hello or I guess I should write her. I’ll write M.J. too. See you Fri night.

</letter>
<letter date="2-11-57" variation="standard">

The trip was not too good as there was no heat on train. Kept warm except for feet. The train was jerky and was an hour and 20 min late here. Studied a little. Spent rest of evening with Ruth. Today is warmer and am seeing about French test today. The physiology course is now approved for graduate credit so enrolled in it. Studied some French this morning and will tonight also. Ruth said the Baptist Church Chapel might be OK. What do you think? Will drop a card to Aunt Clara. Have to pay fees $90 on Thurs. Told Ruth not to worry about anything. She called her Mother and she said it would be easier on them to have it here. Guess that’s all.

</letter>
<letter date="2-11-57" variation="standard">

Was glad to receive your letter today and to hear that you rented one of the apartments. With 2 rented at least you won’t be losing any money. Will write a note to Jim Gillaland about Rotary. I think it is best for now as I can’t really aford it and having been in for almost 3 yrs could probably get in again when settled etc. Is cooler here today after being warmer the last two days. This morning had class and then went over and got 2<u>nd</u> polio shot and paid for the 2 $3. The 3<u>rd</u> shot comes after 6 months so will have to be next summer. I guess 2 give pretty good protection. If you still have that polio insurance I see no reason for carrying it. Paid fees last week and have just about enough money to run till Mar 15<u>th</u> and the last check. Had classes this afternoon from 1-3 (the 2 I’m auditing) and am still at Haworth writing this. Will go home and check on the Baptist Church Chapel. Danforth is the chapel on the campus and is taken all day Sat. Ruth said Dr. Patton said the Baptist Chapel was alright with him.Tonight is game here but must study as have a lot of reading to get caught up in everything. This week is Religious Emphasous Week here but doubt if I’ll get to any meetings. I’ve failed to get some of the problems in in the physiology class so must get on the ball. Yesterday we went to the Presbyterian Church with Gary and Mary. I guess she gets a ring too before long and they’ll get married next summer. (Maybe about the time of ours.) Dr. Patton spoke and they baptized 2 babies. We both (the boys) ate at Sellards for dinner. That makes 2 meals there and it costs Ruth a $1. About half the girls were gone. I went home afterwards and studied with Ruth at the library later in the afternoon. She had to go to a meeting at Westminster at 4:30 and then we stayed there for the program etc. and studied at library later.Sat morning took quiz. There were 15-20 and she’ll have them graded by Wed. Am sure of several words I missed on the prepared part (without dictionary) but think I did better on the part with the dictionary. Rested and worked in lab in the afternoon and we went to the show “Friendly Persuasion” in the evening. Fri was classes and in the evening I studied French while Ruth and Mary went to the ballet. I met them afterwards. Thurs night and before was just classes and French. If didn’t pass will not start again till about vacation time. Will write a note to M.J. etc. Tell Aunt Clara hello etc. Don’t overdo. Have to write Ken etc.

</letter>
<letter date="2-14-57" variation="standard">

Sorry I didn’t get downtown yesterday and get this off. Just got back from downtown where I ate and bought the valentine for you and one for Ruth. I saw Mrs. Nellie Allen at the Café. She had been in Hutch at Barbara Barnes wedding and I told her that Don Montgomery was getting married etc. Have studied French but have 25 pages yet to go and haven’t reviewed the other book. Classes and lab have taken a lot of time. Don’t worry and I’ll try to do the best I can and if don’t pass will realize it wasn’t in vain as have to pass it sometime. After the quiz will start in to catch up on the other subjects. Ruth will go to the Ballet with her roommates tomorrow night. Ruth went to K City today to have her foot treated and she has a couple of appointments with school people in K City, Kansas. I have to pay $90 fees this afternoon.How does Sat afternoon June 1<u>st</u> sound? Will have to check but imagine the Danforth chapel is probably already taken. Why don’t you make up a list of those to whom I should send invitations too. I suppose besides relatives, - Don M. – Henry D. – Ken. H. - Lee M. – and whoever else I have as usher. Maybe John Durden and Cecil Caldwell and Ernie? Lee M. helped some yesterday but not much faster than I read it. He said it was a hard book. Don’t work too hard at apartment and tell Aunt Clara and M.J. hello will write after exam. <footnote>

  At the bottom of this letter Grandmother writes: “I was pleased to hear Carroll passed O.K.”

</footnote>

</letter>
<letter date="2-18-57" variation="standard">

Dear Aunt Clara, I trust this is the right address and this reaches you OK. I hope you are having a good rest. Mother read me some of your letters when I was home a week ago. The one about Guy Collander was very interesting. Had a letter from Mother today and she said she had cleaned up the apartments and rented one of them. I’m glad since she has been so worried. That still leaves 2 vacant. I guess June will be a busy month with Mary Janet and then our wedding – probably here on June 1<u>st</u> or 2<u>nd</u>. I hope you will be able to come. I still plan to be in Hutchinson next summer. Took the French exam Sat but haven’t heard results. Your Christmas gift of a year ago has come in handy as I have used some of it to carry me to Mar 15<u>th</u> when my 1<u>st</u> check comes. Thanks again. See you this spring.

</letter>
<letter date="2-20-57" variation="standard">

I passed the French exam. At least I won’t have to worry about language this spring. Has been colder the last few days. Studied Mon night after reading clippings and everything. Yesterday evening to Sellards at 6:45 and we were going down to choir practice. I guess she didn’t get buzzed and didn’t know I was there till a 2nd buzz at 7:00 – so we didn’t go to choir practice but studied at library. Just wrote a card to Dr. Peters saying I passed the quiz. Will write now to Jim Gilliland.The wedding time and place is confused. I guess Mrs. Laidig was put out when Ruth suggested having it here and said they would probably be the only ones able to come and so expensive to stay here 3-4 days. She said she thought she put it here just on account of us and you being nearer Seneca. Either place there won’t be more than 3 of my relatives. You and maybe Aunt Clara and Uncle Clyde. Let me know as soon as you know more when they expect the baby. The Baptist Chapel here is free on Sat and Sun afternoon. Haven’t heard from Ken yet and he’d have to fly out with Dr. Patton and I’d hate to ask Lee Murray to drive all way to Oberlin and back. I don’t know who else I could get out there so its all confused.You go ahead and make out a tentative list of people for invitations. Ruths Mother sent her a list of about 75 – but if wedding here probably none would come. Also let me know exactly what day your school is out and if you think you could take bus to Oberlin and be there by Fri night. That would give more time to get back here for Baccaulaurate and commencement as we’d have to drive. What do you think? Hope you’re feeling OK. Wrote card to Aunt Clara at Baker Hotel Mineral Wells, Texas hopes she gets it.

</letter>
<letter date="2-25-57" variation="standard">

I asked Mrs. Ring about that letter and also we looked on the table but we couldn’t find it. Today is warmer but cloudy etc. We had a snow here too but it is all gone today. Received your letter today and will send clipping on etc. I started eating today over at the Nu Sigma Nu Medical Fraternity House. They take in people for eating and I know several of them already. It will be a change from the union and less expensive and more too eat. Its just half a block out of my way.Had class this morning and am writing this up at Haworth. I came at 1:00 to Biochemistry (Just auditing) but forget they were having an exam today. Have another class at 2 and then study rest of the day. I gradually getting caught up on some of the reading etc. May go to choir practice tomorrow evening and then Ruth has rehersal at her church for a choir that’s singing  at the instillation service for their new assistant student pastor next Sun afternoon.Yesterday morning we went to the Presbyterian Church since her room was up to take their housemother. There were 3 couples and the housemother. Stayed home in the afternoon and went to Westminster in the evening. Dr. Patton talked on the differences between Protestants and Catholics. We studied at the library afterwards. Sat morning came up to physiology class for 1 hr and took it easy most of day. Ruth went to K.C. and checked on the Praire Village Schools. It was icy and I guess she had trouble getting around. I would have probably gone if it hadn’t been for the class. We listened to the KU-Nebraska and K State-I State basketball games over the radio at her house in the evening. Friday evening we went to the foreign movie at Hoch Auditorium.The college age people have their own convention now and don’t go in with the B.Y.F. Have not heard from Ken so will probably have to write him again to get an answer. Nothing more has worked out. Ruth goes home in 2 weeks so maybe they can work something out then. I sorta doubt if Ken will be able to get away. Gary (Mary’s boyfriend - her roommate) could be used I guess. Commencement here is that Mon June 3<u>rd</u> I guess. I guess something will work out. That’s about all the news. I have plenty of studying this week and I guess Fri night is that Don Cossack Chorus. Tell all hello. Glad you didn’t try to shovel snow.

</letter>
<letter date="2-28-57" variation="standard">

I’m up at my desk in biochemistry now. I feel tired and like I’m catching cold or something so may go home in a little bit. Had a nice letter from Aunt Clara today. Will send it on. Am gradually getting caught up on reading. I’m trying to review and study some for the courses I’m auditing so this takes more time. Tonight will study. Last night Ruth ate at Douthart Hall. The 3 high from each scholarship hall were there. We studied at the library afterwards. Tues night went to choir and then she went to her rehersal at Pres. Ch. Mon night we studied in library. Tomorrow night as I may have told you we have to take the house mother to that concert and also take her out Sat evening. Hope you’re OK.<b>Mon afternoon – </b>I’ll have to write this on scratch paper since I forgot my stationery. I’m in the Lindley Hall library now while Ruth is upstairs in choir. Received your letter today and sorry to hear about Aunt Claras house, but glad the boy admitted it. Before I forget it Mr. Murray was in town the other day and talked to me about next summer. Lee had called earlier and said his dad had said he could use me 4-6 weeks next summer. Ruth received a contract from both of the schools in K.C. to which she applied - $3500 and not much difference overall, so she’ll sign one shortly. I guess I’ll have to write Ken again as I’ve never heard from him. I’m sure he’ll be tied up.The last few days have been a little on the coolish side at night but warm up during the day. I felt tired all weekend and had a little sore throat but haven’t come clear down with a cold. Maybe that flu shot helped. I guess there was a lot of flu at K-State. I have not heard from M.J. so let me hear as soon as know more about her date. Yesterday morning we sang in the Baptist choir and got a ride back on the hill with Cecil Caldwell and wife. Ruth went to the instillation service for their new assistant student pastor. She sang in the student choir. I stayed home resting and studying. We went with Mary and Gary and Mother Hooper to Westminster in the evening. All the guests etc were there and it was a dinner. We studied at the library afterwards.Sat morning we went downtown and ordered a wedding ring for me to match hers. She had some shopping to do and I got a haircut. I stayed in bed most of the afternoon as didn’t feel so good. In the evening we went to the Scandinavian program given at the International Club meeting by the Scandinavian foreign students here. Marianne (her roommate) was in it. She’s from Sweden you know. We were going to take Mother Hooper but she didn’t feel well. Afterwards we came back to Sellards to hear the rest of the basketball game with Colorado and Ruth sewed a button on my brown topcoat. (I’ve really worn the old clothes this winter.)Fri was classes and then met Ruth after choir and went by Sellards awhile. In the evening we went with Mother Hooper, Ken and Barbara (roommate) to hear the Don Cossack Chorus and Dances. They were good. I think you heard them in Hutchinson? It was raining afterwards but we were with Mother Allen (from Pearson Hall for boys – next to Sellards) and she had one of the boys come get us in her car. Ruth goes home Thurs night for the weekend and I may go to choir practice tomorrow night and thats about all. Hope your headaches better and say hello to Aunt Clara. Will send letter on to M.J.

</letter>
<letter date="3-4-57" variation="standard">

We’re down in Bailey (Education) lounge since Ruth didn’t have any choir. She has class 4:00 and I’ll probably go home. Received your letter at noon. I’m not sure at all yet about the moving. I checked with several people Sat and will check some more. My rent was due yesterday so don’t know what to do on that. I’ll let you know right away if I move, etc.Today is warmer as was yesterday. Is windy and dusty today. I got up this morning to go down to meet Ruth’s train. She had said it was 6:45 but when I called at 6:25 it had been in and gone (6:07) so I didn’t go. I saw her later in the morning. She has a dinner tonight since the Watkins scholarship tests are here today and tomorrow. She has to read to the blind boy afterwards. Nothing much else except maybe choir practice tomorrow.Yesterday went to church and sang in choir. Only two bases and the other one is not very loud so guess Miss Cass was glad I was there. Had fried chicken at the Nu Sigs afterwards. Stayed home in the afternoon and read some and rested. Went down at 4:00 and helped set up the tables for Roger Williams supper etc. and then helped some with the meal. Had about 30 there and Miss Emily Taylor (the dean of women) spoke on campus morals, (drinking, cheating). I went home shortly afterwards and read some more.Sat morning slept late and then went to see Dean Woodruff (Dean of Students) at 11:00 about the Nu Sigma Nu thing. Studied at the library some in the afternoon and in the evening listened to the KU game and read some. Ruth called during the game and I told her what you said about M.J. She would prefer to have it in Oberlin but would change it to here if M.J. could make it her. If here only a few people there and bigger crowd there. They had a shower for her there (towels etc.) and she wrote all the thank yous right afterwards. Her contract came back and the salary was $100 more at $3600.Our vacation here (Spring vacation) is from Mar 30 – April 8 – so of course doesn’t come during spring vacation. I have been asked to sing at Pat Miller’s (nurse at K.C.) and Dale Gulledges wedding here on Aug 30<u>th</u>. Carolyn Wilcox (girl in church) and Don Idbe here on May 24<u>th</u>. Will probably turn that one down. I plan to be home during spring vacation and will be home that last part of May. I’ll write M.J. and see what she says about traveling etc. in early June.Hope you had a nice trip. I guess there’s not much point in me coming before vacation. Got fairly well caught up on reading this last weekend. I don’t remember about the basement door. She either didn’t have it chained or the lock off and I’m not sure I left it that way I know she didn’t have both on and I think I left the chain on and lock off. (As you say just locked with the chain.)I guess her Mother put the announcement in the Topeka paper. I’ll send you a picture for there sometime. Mary’s, and 2 others from Sellards will be in the Daily Kansan sometime soon. If the wedding her it’ll be in Baptist Chapel. Last Friday had classes etc and studied at library in evening as I did Thursday. Hope you’re feeling OK and tell all hello. <footnote>

  Grandmother writes on the top of this letter: “Please return soon. Maybe he has written you. He’s really busy isn’t he, with so much to arrange?”

</footnote>

</letter>
<letter date="3-8-57" variation="standard">

Received your letter at noon. Have just been up trying to see Dean Woodruff. The “housefather” at the Nu Sigma Nu (where I eat) has left and they offered me the position for the rest of the semester. They would charge me $50 for room and board. This would mean a saving of about $23 a month over the way I’m living now or slightly more in relation to eating at the union. If I move I’ll probably move Sun as my rent is due the 10<u>th</u>. I’ll check carefully and let you know. It is 1241 Louisiana I think and different phone. They say the position entails no responsibility but I’ll check for sure. I would have a bed in a room where 2 others study but do not sleep. The food there is OK and plenty to eat.Went downtown with Ruth at 5:00 PM yesterday. We ate there and her bus came about 6:30. Eating out costs me extra of course. She’ll be back early Mon morning. I studied at the library last night and probably will tonight. She gave me her 5” x 7” picture yesterday. Tinted etc. 
<letter-image :sources="[5c238387b91ee0fb7e605bdc30df92b6_html_e981535f.jpg]">
  The tinted picture.
</letter-image>The enclosed announcement is from the last Sun Topeka Daily Capitol. The one in the Oberlin paper ran several weeks ago. Do you want to put it in the Hutchinson paper? I suppose Ruth and her Mother will work something out this weekend. I never heard from Ken. Bob Volle and Dr. Walacek (new man in pharmacology dept) were here yesterday and I talked to them awhile. Had never met Dr. Walacek. He young (not over 30).Will come home during vacation which starts last of this month and runs into April. I suppose I could go to M.J. on Easter if could be back for Mon morning class. Hope you had a good trip to Salina and are feeling OK. I still have a touch of something as feel tired. Tell all hello. Went to choir practice last Tues night (2 bases) 13 women, 3 tenors and studied Mon night. Wed night we listened to the KU-K State basketball game at Sellards. We won the championship. I’ll probably listen to our last game tomorrow night, then the tournament next week in Dallis.

</letter>
<letter date="3-11-57" variation="standard">

I’m waiting up where the choir practices and forgot my “letter paper” again. <footnote>

  (This is written on a piece of ‘scratch’ paper.) 

</footnote>Received your letter this noon. (I’m now over at Bailey as there was no regular choir practice.) First of all I’ve been kinda sick this weekend myself. Have had the worst sore throat I’ve had in a long time and hoarse etc. Got all the rest I could and didn’t get any studying done all weekend. Got some antibiotic (on prescription only) from a friend at Round Corner Drug $4 and that should cure it I hope.Today is colder and cloudy after being warm over the weekend. With such changable weather its hard to keep from getting cold etc. Glad to hear M.J. and Bill are better. Didn’t have class this morning as professor had sore throat and couldn’t lecture. I went downtown for the medicine and to bed rest of morning. Had 2 classes I’m auditing this afternoon and will get some more rest later on. We’ll probably study at library tonight. I’ve got to get started on the take home exam which is due Friday.I’m not going to choir tomorrow night as am going to Oberlin Fri night with Ruth. We’re coming back in one of their cars Sun so Ruth can have it in K City to get around. Ruth got new glasses last time home (black frames with white edges) and if her Doctors in Sat I’ll have mine checked there as he has the new type of lens which is supposed to help your eyes. I’ll probably get black frames to hide the thickness of the lens. Her left eye was about what it was while her right eye had gotten weaker. Both mine are weaker.
<letter-image :sources="[5c238387b91ee0fb7e605bdc30df92b6_html_49665493.jpg]">
  Mom in her new glasses.
</letter-image>Yesterday morning didn’t feel so good but went to church and helped in choir. Couldn’t sing too well but they needed me as Durden was back and hadn’t been to rehersal. Ruth couldn’t go to church as she had cook shift. I had a good dinner and then slept in the afternoon. We went to Westminster (election of officers) and then had some ice cream with Mary and Gary and then talked awhile at Sellards. I see no real reason for sending invitations to Norman Pernill, Bob Bell, Norman Miller. I don’t know any of their addresses. Did I receive one from Bob Bell? What do you think?? I think I will send Searl.Sat morning went to class and got the exam and then stayed around Haworth till noon. Stayed home all afternoon resting and cleaning up etc. We went to movie Oklahoma and then had some ice cream and back to hear rest of KU-Oklahoma City U game at Dallas. Fri evening we saw Red Shoes and then listened to the KU-Southern Methodist Game. We won both games and will play for the national championship next Fri and Sat night. We’ll probably have to listen to Fri nights game on the bus with Ruth’s portable. Sat we’ll be in Oberlin.It makes no difference to us when the announcement is in the paper. Yes those were the stubs. I’ll try to straighten it out. Ruth is pretty sure of Kindergarten but if not, for sure it would always be 1<u>st</u> or 2<u>nd</u> grade. Ruths school is several miles from med center. We’ll look at apartments sometime this spring and might have to pay rent to hold one over the summer. Saw Ken Holladay Sun after church (and Elisabeth). His classes are out then and he said he might fly out with Dr. Patton but would let me know for sure later. I told him that even if he couldn’t make it that he could consider himself as my 1<u>st</u> choice. If Bill can’t make it would have to use Lee Murray or maybe Gary Corman or whoevers there. As you well can see if the wedding was here we would be lucky to have a total of 20 people present. So I guess the time will be late afternoon of Fri May 31<u>st</u>. I thought I explained that Fri seemed best since that would give us plenty of time to get back here for Commencement and Baccalaurate Sun night and any Senior activities on Sunday. We’d have to drive and I’m not used to driving you know. Am enclosing letter from Ken and one from M.J. and returning one you sent. The reason for having before commencement as I’ve said was so she could have Dr. Patton, so I guess that’s the way it has worked out. Tell Aunt Clara hello and I’ll write her sometime. Nothing much else this week. May attend some noon seminars on marriage at the Westminster house. Haven’t received 1<u>st</u> check yet so can’t pay that insurance.

</letter>
<letter date="3-18-57" variation="standard">

Please send the last bunch of checks and statement before the one you sent me (Jan 24 – Feb 20). My stubs don’t balance with the statement. This may be due to some extra money that you might have put in the bank?? <u>Fri</u> – Received your letter this noon, It has been windy here all week and after warm on Wed it turned cold again yesterday. I had letter and clippings from M.J. Her letter was written before she received my last letter and she said she would try to make it to the wedding etc. If she thinks she can make it to Oberlin it will probably be there. Bill could be best man as Ken said he probably could make it here but not to Oberlin. He will be down Sun. Had a chance to go to K City Sat morning with Dr. Newmark (My biochemistry professor) Nucleic Acids but we have physiology class this Sat and he gives us our first exam then. It will be take home type and we’ll have a week. I don’t know what it’ll be like.I’m not sure who had the shower for Ruth but think it was some lady etc. As for the door I think I left it with just the chain on. Whats the difference between the key and bolt is bolt that little lock up above? Will send that Investors Card on. They have said nothing more at Nu Sigma Nu – so if they mention it again around 1<u>st</u> think I’ll turn them down as $40 saved for 2 months and I’m so well situated with phone etc. and can do washing easily etc. What do you think? Elisabeth Holladay is expecting their baby the last of May so couldn’t come if it is here. It’ll probably depend now on whether M.J. thinks she can make it to Oberlin. Lee could probably go to Oberlin and another usher could be one of the Musgrave boys or Gary Corman (the graduate student to which Mary Roger (Ruth’s roommate and best friend) is now engaged as of last Mon night.I went to choir Tues night (Ruth didn’t go as has to work shift Sun morning) and Wed went to Celtic Cross meeting with her from 7:15 to 8:00 – (They ate earlier). That’s the Pres group who may go into full time service. And last night we went to union from 8-9 as she had phone shift from 9-11. – Tonight is movie Red Shoes at Hoch and ball game over radio. I’m enclosing picture. This is same picture as my tinted 5” x 7”. You can keep this one. You can put in Hutchinson paper with same write up or as you prefer. If in Oberlin would be on 31<u>st</u>, OK. Will turn down chance to sing at wedding on 24<u>th</u> as too busy and nervous (ha!) then. <footnote>

  Grandmother may have switched the dates on this letter and the previous letter.

</footnote>

</letter>
<letter date="No Date" variation="standard">

<b>Wed -</b> Dear M.J. and Bill, Thanks for your two letters. As it stands now the wedding will be in Oberlin on Fri afternoon the 31<u>st</u> of May. In order to have Dr. Patton (the Presbyterian Student Minister) it had to be before commencement and that gives more time to get back here for that. Ken Holladay might be able to make it there but not sure yet. Might have to use Lee Murray as best man. We’ll both be very sorry if you won’t be able to make it. Glad you’re all better. I had a bad sore throat over the weekend but it is better now. I’m going home with Ruth this weekend and we’ll come back in one of their cars so she can have it while practice teaching in K City. She starts week after next. I hope we win the national championship in basketball this weekend. Will send more clipping later.

</letter>
<letter date="3-21-57" variation="standard">

Am up in Haworth working in lab some. Is cool, cloudy and rainy today and it rained last night. Sent a note to M.J. yesterday with your letter and said we were sorry if they wouldn’t be able to make it to wedding. Ruth applied for a job with the Hutchinson Recreation Commission this summer and has sent them the application. They want an interview so she may drive down the last weekend of my vacation (about April 8<u>th</u>) or so and then I could go back with her. We’ll be careful going back this weekend and will take it slow. Probably leave Sun morning. We’ve studied in the library each evening this week and I must finish my take home physiology exam this evening. My throat is about well but Ruth has it now. There is a lot of sore throat around. The colored girl in this nucleic acids (biochem) class has a sore throat and the other fellow had some last week. I received my check yesterday ($129) and your card. Sent check to bank and paid insurance. My house bill will be due before next check but maybe can hold off so won’t have to transfer any money. As I think I’ve told you I’ve decided not to move even if asked. Tues, Wed, and today noon have gone over to Westminster house to attend the marriage seminar given by Mrs. Patton.Must wash tonight and had $6 cleaning this week. Have tried to hold cleaning down and that was first batch in long time and most cotton shirts are clean. Will bring home some winter clothes when come for vacation. We’ll leave on bus tomorrow evening about 6:30 and gets in Oberlin around 3 or 4 in morning. Ruth’s Mother will probably keep her busy Sat so may have some time to study or read. I’ll have study for vacation. Tell Aunt Clara hello etc. I hope you’re OK.

</letter>
<letter date="3-22-57" variation="standard">

We’re now down at the post office. Ruths father called this afternoon and said there was a blizzard warning out there. I had heard it this morning over the radio. He said he’d call tomorrow or Sunday and they may drive part way and we’d go and meet them either tomorrow or Sunday. We went to show “Teahouse of the August Moon” last night and I stayed up till 2:00 AM finishing the exam for physiology. This afternoon Ruth went to K City with the girls who will student teach at Westwood View School and their supervising teacher. I was getting ready when Ruth called saying we wouldn’t go tonight. Hope you’re OK. I kinda got left out of the enclosed clipping. Tell Aunt Clara hello. Had your card today.

</letter>
<letter date="3-26-57" variation="standard">

We’re in Bailey Lounge as Ruth didn’t have any 4:00 class. It snowed last night but it is not too cold and most of it has melted. Fri night after walking down to mail your letter we came back and listened to the KU-San Francisco game which we won. Sat morning we left on the Union Pacific train and went to Oakley. It was snowing and blowing about the time we reached Russell. It got worse and the train was slowed down. We got off at Oakley but of course Mr. Laidig wasn’t there. We ate with a girl who was also stranded and Ruth finally got ahold of her Mother who said Mr. L and Danny (10 yrs) Musgrave had started out about 1:00 PM. After we checked back at the station Mr. L had called from lobby so Ruth called him and he said their car was off the road and they wouldn’t be able to make it. He said for us to go on back on the next train.We waited all evening at the hotel along with some people who were stranded on a bus there. We heard the national championship game with KU and North Carolina on the radio which we lost. After that we went back to the station and waited for the train which was 2 hours late. By the time we reached Lawrence it was 6 hours late as it had to go very slow for the first few hrs. I guess we were lucky to make it back at all as there were several trains stalled and it said over the radio this morning that the same train we were on was stalled 21 miles West of Oakley. I guess Mr. L made it home alright or we would have heard by now.After arriving we went to Sellards by cab and then I went over to dinner (fried chicken) and then tried to call you. I went back for Ruth and we went to the cafeteria so she could eat since she was signed out for dinner. I rested in the afternoon and then we went to Westminster where we ate and they had a talk by some missionaries from Brazil. It was sleeting and raining afterwards and I stopped awhile at Sellards and then went on home. Today are usual classes and we’ll study at library tonight. Ruths finals are Tues and Wed and she has meetings on Thurs and Fri for her student teaching. I won’t go to choir tomorrow night as won’t be there Sun. Ruth has phone shift Thurs night so I might not come till Sat. I’ll drop you a line. Didn’t get your letter today. I have plenty to do over vacation. Ruth will probably be down the last weekend although she hasn’t heard for sure if they want an interview. Hope you’re OK and tell Aunt Clara hello.

</letter>
<letter date="4-8-57" variation="standard">

Dear Mrs. Smith, As you know we got back just fine. As we were coming out of Hutchinson a car passed us and the people honked, waved and smiled. The girl in the car was from Oberlin. The next car that passed us was my former government teacher. We thought that was a little unusual. We stopped in Emporia for gas and oil and then we stopped at a Dairy Queen to eat our sandwiches. We had soft drinks and decided we wanted some ice cream, too, so we had sundaes. Carroll had raspberry, but I had something I’d never heard of before – pecan hash. It’s a mixture of crushed pecans and very mild chocolate. We both thought it was good. And we ate quite a few pieces of the green candy, too. Carroll drove all the way back and I thought he did a good job. His philosophy of driving would make my dad happy – they agree almost exactly. Although we took it easy, we got to Lawrence a little after 7. We were a little lost at first since we weren’t used to coming in on that side of town since neither of us is used to having a car.I don’t know what Carroll did besides call you, but I put a washing in the machine (the automatic so I could just go off and leave it), got it dry, had a shampoo, sorted clothes and everything. I stayed in Lawrence last night rather than drive on over after dark. So I had to get up at 5:45 this morning. It was raining when I went to bed last night, but it snowed and made the roads just a little bit slick. I didn’t really have any trouble, though and got here before Miss Shay was up. Even after such a trip on the weekend I’m not as tired tonight after school as I was last week. Maybe there’s hope that I’ll become a teacher yet. Mom just wrote me that Dad just bought us a 7 quart Westinghouse deep cooker. She said he does a lot of thinking about things to get for “his women.” I was surprised, but of course I’m glad to get it, too.I need to get busy making teaching plans, studying my correspondence course, studying Greek and doing a handwashing. But I think I’ll write letters for a while instead – it’s more fun. My roommates were all envious when I told them about the apartment and the fact that Carroll and I were going to get to work together on the other one. They agree with us that it will be fun. Thank you for letting me stay there last weekend and thank you, too, for the cookbook and the curtain material. I love cookbooks – I’ve been collecting recipes since I was a pretty small girl. And you know how I feel about working with material. It was nice not to rush around forcing myself to do things. I just hope you didn’t wear yourself out. I’d better get to work. Thanks again, Ruth

</letter>
<letter date="4-9-57" variation="standard">

Is somewhat warmer today after being cold yesterday. It snowed a little early Mon morning. Had class this morning and just had my drivers test moved to a week from this afternoon. Dwayne Yank is the examiner and I knew him in Hutchinson. I can practice this week-end etc. Will work in lab this afternoon and Ruth is supposed to be down this evening for her society initiations and some other meeting. Sun evening it rained and was cold etc. Ruth went back in the morning. Yesterday had classes and studied all day, unpacked etc. I studied at library in evening. Hope you’re OK and not too tired. Tell Aunt Clara Hello. Was glad to help you during vacation.

</letter>
<letter date="4-12-57" variation="standard">

I’ll write this now but you may not get it tomorrow if they cut off the mail delivery. Today is cold again as was yesterday when it snowed in the late afternoon. I’ll be glad when it finally gets warm. I feel today like I have a cold but not as bad as last time yet. Letter from Ruth today said her folks would be here Sat night as her dad has a meeting in Emporia. I just bought 4 tickets so we can all go to the Rock Chalk Review.We’ll probably study tonight. Next week will be only 2 hrs of regular classes as professors etc in physiology and biochemistry will be gone to the national meetings. I’ll have plenty of time to review and study. I’m doing a lot of reviewing and making notes on things which are not required now but which I’ll use for review later when I study for preliminary examinations. I must start checking into getting a good German book for this summer. I guess I told you that I got the Drivers test changed to next Tues. I’ll practice tomorrow on driving etc. Have done nothing special since wrote last except study etc. Ruth stayed all night last Tues and went back early Wed. I studied in library Wed and Thurs nights. We come down some weekend before school is out so could bring a lot of my things home etc. Hope you and Aunt Clara are OK.

</letter>
<letter date="4-15-57" variation="standard">

Am over in Strong <footnote>

  (hall) 

</footnote>writing to you and Ruth. I was telling her that I made it back from K City OK this morning. I got up early and took her over. I met Mrs. Shay (Jim Stout’s mother-in-law). I brought the car back for test tomorrow. I must try parallel parking this evening as I haven’t yet. Have studied this afternoon. No classes this week as I’ve said before so will try to get caught up. I wondered why I didn’t hear from you last week and then figured I would have on Sat if there had been a mail delivery. Your card came today.We went to Baptist Church yesterday morning. Were late as Ruths parents stayed Sun morning and they were talking etc. I stayed home in the afternoon while Ruth read to the blind boy. I did a lot of washing etc. Went to Westminster in evening and then for Ice Cream with Gary and Mary. Have an appointment with Dr. Patton next Sat morning. We may come to Hutch some Sat afternoon to bring a load of things. Will let you know. Sat morning slept late and then we went riding in the afternoon. In the evening I took Ruth and her parents to Rock Chalk Review (Skits etc.) it was 3 hours long and cost me $5. Am waiting for check to pay last months house bill. Got over that trace of cold. Hope you’re all OK.

</letter>
<letter date="4-23-57" variation="standard">

Hope you had a good trip on home and were not too tired. We got back OK before it was dark and then ate out at one of the drive-ins. Ruth stayed all night and went back Mon morning as usual. Yesterday I was tired but feel more rested today. Had usual classes and studied in the library in the evening. This morning had class and am now studying in the library.Dr. Newmark wants me to do some lab work since I missed the week of vacation. Next week is physiology test and 2 weeks from today is my seminar (2 hrs) for the class. This means I might decide to come ahead this weekend. I’ll write or call you up. Tonight is choir but may not go if think I won’t be there Sun. There is so much studying that I should do. Nothing else special this week. Guess I’ll write Ruth now. Tell Aunt Clara hello. I was glad we could all be together on Easter.

</letter>
<letter date="4-26-57" variation="standard">

Is cooler today after raining this morning. I guess we’ll come next weekend rather than this as my physiology exam is due on Wed. I thought it was due on Fri. I’ll get started on it this weekend and then will have time after Wed to finish lecture on biochem. Had a letter from Ruth enclosing a note to M.J. and Bill. I enclosed a note also and sent on. Have done nothing but study etc. the last few days. Got the German book the boys say is best. It is specifically to teach a reading knowledge. Ruth should be here later today. Hope you’re all OK.

</letter>
<letter date="4-29-57" variation="standard">

I’m in the library now after class. Received your letter this noon. Ruth got here about 5 last Fri evening. We studied at Haworth in the biochemistry library. I started on the physiology and she was finishing her 9<u>th</u> lesson on the correspondence study. She has 15 yet to go but she says she’s sure she’ll get them done.Sat morning I took car and went downtown and got haircut and paid cleaning bill (Will pay for Dr’s bill you sent and the glasses when it comes). Came back and watched KU ball game awhile before and after lunch and then picked up Ruth at 2 at Westminster house. She was attending part of the retreat for old and new officers. In the morning they had their conferences on student teaching. We went downtown and she bought a pair of shoes for wear at school etc. as the children walk on her feet. (Beige color.) We came back on hill and went to foreign student displays at union and saw the things from all the different foreign countries. In the evening we went to Haworth and finished addressing, stamping and everything for the invitations. That was the evening of their spring formal but we didn’t go.Sun morning we went to Baptist Church and sang in choir. 2 bases John Durden and myself. We’ll both be gone next year so Miss Cass will have to recruit some new bases. In the afternoon Ruth stayed home, did some ironing and worked on correspondence study. I studied at library. We went to Westminster and they had instillation of new officers and communion in Danforth. Went by hospital afterwards and saw Marianne her roommate. Not sure she can make it to wedding. Got car filled with gas and something to eat afterwards.Nothing special here this week but plenty of study etc. They changed the due date for the quiz to Fri as some had exams but we got the invitations done. We’ll come either next weekend or Mother’s day if you prefer. Probably Mother’s day as afraid I’ll need time on lecture. We’ll have to go to K City the other weekend. Must write Ken. Lee Murray said I could count on him for sure and he has a white dinner jacket. Ruth won’t be going home till the final week when she’s out of student teaching. She says the new car is already in Oberlin. We took out John E’s wedding inv. OK last Sat. night. Unless you prefer next weekend we’ll probably come for Mothers day. Don’t work too hard and say hello to Aunt Clara.

</letter>
<letter date="5-2-57" variation="standard">

Am working in lab today and on the physiology test which is due tomorrow and the lecture for next Tues. I couldn’t have possibly made it this weekend anyway. Dr. Newmark told me Dr. Peters wanted to see me so I called yesterday and I’ll go in next Thurs morning. He didn’t say what he wanted but my guess is that he’ll want me to spend part of summer on research at the medical center. He approved what I had in mind earlier when I talked to him so I’m not too sure. I’ve explained carefully that I feel I’ll need personal help on German but he may think the research experience will be more valuable. This is just a guess so will have to wait and see.I tried to get motel here for us but all filled (the nice ones) so am writing to Topeka. If you come I suppose you could stay at Rings. Tues night got the card off to Aunt Nellie and went to choir practice. Sent all clippings on to M.J. Ruth came back last night to read to Joe etc. She may come back next Wed for A Cappella concert so I can go in Thurs morning with her. Will spend all free time this weekend on lecture. This last month will be well filled up with studying as Dr. Newmark expects so much. Hope you’re all OK and Aunt Clara. Have written Ken for his final answer.

</letter>
<letter date="5-6-57" variation="standard">

Everything OK. Will write letter tomorrow. Busy all weekend and today on lecture for in morning. Had your letter today. We mailed announcements last night so you probably got yours today. Hope you’re all OK.

</letter>
<letter date="5-7-57" variation="standard">

Am in Haworth now. Lecture etc. went OK this morning although I spent an awful lot of time on it. I had 9 sheets printed up to pass out. I must learn to prepare similar review articles in a shorter time as next year I’ll have to give seminars etc. That took all morning and this afternoon went to Malott awhile to punch some papers. Am getting books and papers together to bring home this weekend. The trunk door of the car has been stuck so I hope we can get it open to enable us to carry more. We probably won’t leave till after lunch.Tonight I’ll study and have to catch up on some lab work now. Will not go to choir as won’t be there Sun. Ruth will come tomorrow night. It’s the A Cappella concert but she won’t sing as she doesn’t have a formal here. We may go. I’ll drive her back Thurs morning and see Dr. Peters and come back around noon. I’ll have to go in and get her then on Friday.Yesterday I worked all day here on talk and had to do some of the typing last night as the secretary didn’t have enough time. Sun morning we went to Baptist Church and sang in the choir. Good crowd but just John and I for bases. Miss Cass will have to recruit some for next year. In the afternoon I came here to Haworth and Ruth came up later after sealing the invitations and reading to that boy. We ate at Westminster and left before the program started and came back here to work.Sat morning we studied awhile in the library. In the afternoon we went downtown. I left laundry and Ruth took my class ring to jewelry store to be engraved and she was seeing about engraving my ring. Ruth had had the brakes relined in K City Fri evening and they gave out on us Sat. Had to towed to Ford place and cost her $16 - something else went wrong. I’ve been buying gas, but her dad will pay for it I guess. (We will owe him $400 on the new car.) We took bus back on hill and I studied awhile and then went back downtown for car and then I took Ruth to eat and I ate at house. Worked here again in evening. Fri night Ruth was late because of car and then we studied here. She has quite a bit yet on here correspondence course. Tell Aunt Clara hello and hope you’re all OK. We got reservations in Topeka on 1, 2 &amp; 3. <footnote>

  (For the honeymoon.) 

</footnote>Do you want to stay at Rings.

</letter>
<letter date="5-12-57" variation="standard">

Am in Sellards now as we just got here. Trip went OK. Plenty of daylight to Emporia where we ate a hamburger. Got dark on turnpike but don’t mind that at night. Next year if we come home on a weekend we could do the same just so to Emporia is before dark and then on turnpike all way to K City. I was glad we could all be together on Mother’s day. It was 185 miles by the way we came. About 200 miles when you go regular way. Tell Aunt Clara hello. We’ll go down by P.O. now.

</letter>
<letter date="5-13-57" variation="standard">

Dear Mrs. Smith, Thank you for taking care of me so well over the weekend and for letting me leave some of my things there. As you know, we got back quite safely. Carroll wrote your card while I took my things upstairs and phoned the dressmaker to see about details on the girls’ dresses. And then we drove down to mail it, so I know it got mailed.It rained during the night and when I got ready to come over here this morning it was coming down in regular sheets! At the time I left 30 miles an hour was all the faster it was safe to go. So instead of a forty minute drive it took me over an hour. Then the rest of the day turned out to be quite nice. I spent half the morning visiting one of the first grades and then took over the kindergarten so the teacher could have conferences with parents. That’s the way it’ll be most of this week and then I’m through here. The time has really gone fast. My correspondence course calls, so I’d better get at it. Thanks again. Ruth

</letter>
<letter date="5-15-57" variation="standard">

Just wrote to M.J. and Bill telling them that I heard from Ken and he can’t go out. I said we’d order clothes for Bill and if they can’t come maybe Eldon will be there and can wear the suit. Just left a German book to be approved for reading. It has an Eng translation which should help. Have plenty of lab and studying to keep busy with. Will probably leave here on that Tues sometime. Got an A in last physiology test (take home). If do well on final (which I must review for) might get an A. Dr. Newmark will probably give me a B in biochemistry.When got home last night had a gift from the Roger Williams group. It is the usual blanket they give, I guess. My check hasn’t come yet so can’t pay house bills which will take most. Ruth will be here tomorrow night for meeting of seniors at Sellards. We’ll go to K City Sat I guess for apartment. She has conference next week and then leaves. I’ll have her ring engraved I guess although there’s not much room as is other lettering.It has rained a time or two since Sun and has been some cooler. Nothing else this week except little things and study etc. I paid Mrs. Ring $11 and she wrote again to me about .56. I wrote letter to her (they were gone) and wrote .56 check. (I had no change or money) and said I had included .56 in $11 since I was leaving 28<u>th</u> and then offered to pay the $5 till June 10<u>th</u>. She’s said nothing although he came down and emptied wastebasket ha! I told her not to cash .56 check for few days as bank account was on the borderline.Ruth is writing thank you to Aunt Clara and I hope you’re both feeling OK. I have lecture (1 hr) in last class next Tues and then study for physiology final a week from tomorrow. Lab work from then till leave.

</letter>
<letter date="5-20-57" variation="standard">

Am at home and will drive by for Ruth shortly and we’ll go to Haworth to study. Received your letter today and sorry to hear about M.J. I’m sure she’ll get along OK. The drug is to calm uterine contractions I believe. I just called Ruth and she’s calling her Mother to see if they know more about Eldon coming. There boy was exposed to the measles so they weren’t positive. I asked Gary Corman (Mary’s fiancé) and he said he didn’t want to drive that far and then again to Colo after their wedding. I’m ushering at theirs you know. A day after I wrote the Holladays saying I understood about him not getting to go I received a birth announcement from them. A boy 5-7 ½ oz on 5-14-1957. It was about 2 wks early I guess. We’ll get them a gift I guess. Ruth is here for meetings Mon-Wed. She had planned to leave Thurs or Fri but she had 8 lessons on her course left to do so the soonest she can take the test is next Mon so she’ll stay till then.  She can give me support Sun as I’m doing a page of solo in the anthem. I’ve been at Haworth all day and Ruth came over and read an assignment in afternoon. She’ll make it easily with all this week. She has a final in the Greek course on Thurs. Tonight and in the morning I will finish my talk for last class in Nucleic Acids tomorrow. And then study for physiology test Thurs morning and then lab till Mon or Tues as necessary to satisfy Dr. Newmark.Yesterday we went to church and sang in choir. Good crowd and sermon. In afternoon Ruth read to boy and I worked at Haworth. We ate at Westminster and back to Haworth for study. (We’re now at Haworth). Ruth wrote an air-mail letter to Eldon etc. – she called her Mother and suggested Dallis Musgrave as the 3<u>rd</u> one. They didn’t know his coat size. Rental is $6.50 for both pants and coat. $5 just for coat and 2.50 for pants. We’ll get only a coat for Mr. Laidig. Marianne might go as a guest and is feeling better. Sat morning we went downtown and got my ring and left Ruths. Ruth got her blood test certificate and I got mine today. We’ll get license here later this week. Sat afternoon we went to K City and rented an apartment just across the street from the Med Center. Bed rolls away in large closet like. 3<u>rd</u> floor of University Apartments $60 + $4 for garage. Has room for piano etc. Sat night worked at Haworth. Fri night here. Ruth was back Thurs night last week for that senior dinner. Hope you’re all OK and tell Aunt Clara hello. I’ll know by end of week whether I’ll come on Mon or Tues etc. Will have to use savings to carry over. We sent Rings invitation but did not send Lee Hammonds. We have some left but its kinda late now. Will use Eldon as best man if there.

</letter>
<letter date="5-24-57" variation="standard">

Its Fri night and we’re at Haworth. Ruth is copying assignment 20 and has 4 more to go by Sun and then will take the final Mon morning at 8:00. She plans to leave right after that for Oberlin. I might be ready to go with her part way and then take the bus down but I’ve still got some lab work left which I want to do for Dr. Newmark. I’ll drop you a card Sun if I don’t plan to come on the train. If I come on train I suppose it will be regular one which leaves here Mon evening at 6:00 etc. Ruth said the girls dresses came today and they look real nice. Marianne may fly out but won’t be in the ceremony. Mary may fly out too since Gary doesn’t want to drive as I mentioned. This morning I got a haircut and spent some time up here and over at Malott (Science building) talking with one of the boys who just finished up in pharmacology. This afternoon worked here awhile and then we went downtown. Picked up Ruth’s ring after engraving, got marriage license $3.50, put in order for clothes to be rented, took shower gift to Nancy Dixon (Molly’s younger sister) and Ruth bought a new pair of bedroom slippers. The clothes will cost me $25 and I paid $10 down. They’ll have to be sent out on the bus next Wed night as the stores will be closed on Thurs. They come from K City and we’ll have to bring them back on the Sat. Looks like I’ll have to transfer about $300 into checking account as feel I should pay at least $50 to Mr. Laidig now. It’s raining some tonight.Yesterday morning was physiology test. I don’t know how I did but have chance for A or B for sure. In the afternoon I came up here awhile and then spent quite a bit of time at Malott talking to Dr. Wenzel and another one of the boys who just finished his Masters degree. We worked up here in the evening. Wed had last classes and studied for the test on Thurs. Glad to hear that M.J. is better. I must get the clippings read and sent on. I don’t think we sent to Richard Searl. Guess its too late now. We’ll have to pay $96 to hold apartment till Aug 1<u>st</u> but guess it’s worth it to have a place so close and convenient so I can walk to lab as necessary without going in car. Ruth of course wasn’t in or near the storm section.On ordering the clothes we had to guess at some of the lengths as Ruth’s Mother forgot to send them in the special delivery letter which she got this morning. Tomorrow will work some up here and will leave some of my things at Sellards rather than in the basement so I can be clear out of there when leave. Hope you’re OK and didn’t get cold and tell hello to Aunt Clara. Must have black shoes re-soled and soles blacked for the wedding when I get home. Ruth received the enclosed letter from Aunt Nellie. Love, Carroll

</letter>
<letter date="5-31-57 – The Wedding!" variation="note">

There are more pictures in the official wedding album in Park Forest.
<letter-image :sources="[5c238387b91ee0fb7e605bdc30df92b6_html_330be35.jpg]">
  Best pre-wedding photo ever.
</letter-image>
<letter-image :sources="[5c238387b91ee0fb7e605bdc30df92b6_html_62379149.jpg, 5c238387b91ee0fb7e605bdc30df92b6_html_36c3d176.jpg]" />

<letter-image :sources="[5c238387b91ee0fb7e605bdc30df92b6_html_b26e9a6b.jpg]" />

</letter>
<letter date="6-3-57 –" variation="note">

Mom graduates! No mention of this in the letters. Mom says she did “walk down the hill” at her graduation. She also says they drove across Kansas on Saturday, the day after their wedding, so they could be at her roommate’s rehearsal. The roommate was married on Sunday afternoon, then Mom attended Baccalaureate, and then graduation on Monday. Whew! Not much of a honeymoon 
<letter-image :sources="[5c238387b91ee0fb7e605bdc30df92b6_html_ef6d9931.jpg]" />
According to Mom, the newlyweds spent the summer in Hutchinson where Dad worked as a relief pharmacist in various stores. They lived in Grandmother’s house at first while she was in Seneca with Mary Janet (who had to be on bed rest before Jim was born). After Jim was born they lived in one of Grandmother’s apartments while they fixed two of them up. 
<letter-image :sources="[5c238387b91ee0fb7e605bdc30df92b6_html_a8315974.jpg]">
  The apartments at 312 West 9<u>th</u> Street as they looked in April 2019.
</letter-image>They didn’t have a stove, so everything they cooked was done in one of their 2 electric skillets. They also made a baby  In August they moved to an apartment in Kansas City on Olathe Boulevard. It had a kitchen, bath, huge closet with a roll out bed, and a living room.

</letter>
<letter date="6-5-57" variation="standard">

Dear Mother Smith, Carroll said to tell you he’d go up and cut the lawn (or at least start on it) tomorrow morning. He would have this afternoon but it was just too hot! We got here about 2 yesterday and went to eat with my folks at Leonidas. We showed them the apartment and then got some groceries, which we didn’t use since Aunt Clara invited us up for fried chicken. We drove around Cary Park for a little while and saw the miniature roller coaster and train. It looked like fun, but we didn’t stop since we were too tired. We sorted a few things, but didn’t stay up very late.I was up long enough to get Carroll’s breakfast and the rest of the day I’ve been in bed. I think Carroll’s going to let me get up after while, though. He’s sorted quite a few things today and went to the A and A to see Mr. Murray, but he wasn’t there. He says it’s really hot outside and I know the radio announcer said it was 85 earlier in the day. Carroll’s “letting” me write our thank-yous, since that’s something I can do in bed. (He really doesn’t want to write them very badly anyway.) Right now he’s resting, but I’m not sure he’s asleep. I won’t disturb him, because he’s probably all worn out after all the running he did for me this morning.If Mary Janet’s interested in china, we don’t have any of our pattern, which is Pickard’s Pristine. And in our silver (Rose Solitaire by Towle) we have one place setting and four additional teaspoons. We haven’t had time to check to see if there’s anything else we’d really like or need. I hope your trip to Seneca went o.k. and you found Mary Janet feeling better. Tell them “hi” for us. I’d better get busy on those thank-yous or I’ll never get them finished. I think we’ll probably start painting tomorrow – at least Carroll will. ‘Bye for now. Love, Carroll and Ruth
<letter-image :sources="[5c238387b91ee0fb7e605bdc30df92b6_html_6ab79501.jpg]" />

</letter>
<letter date="6-24-57" variation="standard">

Dear Mother Smith, Thank you for the $300 check (I don’t know if we ever actually thanked you or not.) It seems sort of silly to write you when all we have to do is pick up the phone, but a written thanks always seems a little nicer to me. We’ll probably see you for supper about as soon as you get this. Thanks again! Carroll and Ruth

</letter>
<letter date="8-1-57" variation="standard">

I’m at the building now and about ready to go home. Have been here all day and got things sorta lined up. I’ll work on research 1<u>st</u> and not do so much with the German right now. Will get $150 this month and then $200 starting Sept 1<u>st</u>. I’ll be working now with Dr. Walazek on the problem related to mental disease and its chemical basis. Its now Sunday 6:45 and we’ve just had supper. We spent a quiet afternoon at home reading studying etc. Ruth wrote the thank yous for the shower and read. I’m writing this at the desk. We could use the table lamp as there is just the overhead light. We’ll get when we get to Hutchinson. When will you be back there? We might try to get to Seneca sometime. We’ll be anxious to see the new nephew.We went out this morning with the intention of going to the Presbyterian Church but since they had had early services we went to the Lutherin. These churches are just a few blocks away. We ate at the Med Center cafeteria afterwards. As you remember you can get a good meal for .60-.80. Things are pretty well straightened except for 2 or 3 grips and boxes of stuff. We ordered a slipcover for the davenport which looks kinda bad. We bought a fan which we run all night as its been so hot. Today was the coolest day since have been here. The blue carpet is badly worn where the bed rolls out etc. The living room is bigger than the apartment we saw that other time but the bathroom doesn’t seem as nice or large. The kitchen is of adequate size except for lack of drawer space. I’ll write tonight for the piano. Ruth says she’ll practice a few hrs each day. She of course had to cancel her contract. <footnote>

  (Because she’s pregnant.) 

</footnote>The man was nice about it.Dr. Peters said the $4 checks were to keep me on the payroll during June and July. He said he’d give me a raise from the $400 next year, so I guess we’ll make it. The garage was available but the space is so short that it is very hard to get the car in. Ruth bought material to make bathroom curtains and also for the kitchen. We bought curtains for the living room. You’re welcome anytime and there is a motel just across street from the med center (2 blks away). Ruth said she’d use your shower money and some wedding money to buy some china. Last night we went to Henrys wedding at a new Baptist Church (med size) and boys in white coats etc. Crowd just a few less than ours etc. It was hot.Yesterday afternoon stayed home and cleaned up and read etc. I worked in the morning at lab and then we went to Plaza (shopping center) and bought a little vase and plant for living room. Aunt Claras pictures look nice. Friday night we went down to K.C. Ks where mailed card. We’ll try to see Ken and Elisabeth tonight, mail this and get groceries. The trip here was hot and car completely jammed full. Did everything for you but checking on fan. The girls downstairs sister-in-law came by and looked at the apartment. On way here stopped at Lawrence to eat and stopped at Westminster Hall. The apartment was vacent when got here. Our # for 2 more weeks is JO-28261. Then we’ll go to service we want and will let you know.

</letter>
<letter date="8-6-57" variation="standard">

I’m at my desk now having just come from class. This morning I worked on German and tonight will study and read. The machine is still broken. A transformer is burned out and I’ve written to see whether it will be quicker to order a new one or to have the electrician try and fix it. I’m a week behind today as to where I thought I would be and it may be 1-3 wks more till we get it fixed. Dr. Walaszek will be back next week and I’d hoped to have some results by then. However its been a good time to do a lot of reading which I feel I should and to work some on the German. I’m making vocabulary cards for all the words I can which are from the scientific book which I have. The books are due Oct 1<u>st</u> so will get the cards made and then memorize the words and check the books out again later. Bob Volle is taking the exam on the 28<u>th</u> which is when I’d always thought I would try it too.Received your card today and letter this week and glad to hear that everything is fine.  Don’t work too hard and get all the rest you can. I hope the kids aren’t as bad for you this year. Tell Aunt Clara hello. Ruth practiced this morning and has about every day. We went to choir practice last night. Good crowd and choir. All older experienced singers. Herb Skillman (Parke Davis salesman (drugs)) and wife are in it. They knew the Shays and I knew him in pharmacy school. He and one other man are real strong basses. <footnote>

  You spelled it right Dad! 

</footnote>Better than I’m used to being with. Ruth said there was a strong alto also. They had refreshments afterwards.Tomorrow we try again to get lumber and bricks for bookshelves and then to Lawrence in the afternoon and evening to see Mary and Gary Corman. If stay till evening will come back on turnpike to avoid lights, hills etc. which make me so tired at night. Will write Sun or Mon after weekend. We stayed home Wed and Mon nights and Tues night Ken and Elizabeth came over. They brought us a table lamp lamp as a wedding present. Much smaller than M.J.’s to us. David (their baby) was real good. He’s not too much bigger than Jimmy. We had popcorn, Pepsi-Cola and messed around with some tricks. Ken’s classes are started now too. Saw Jimmy Gleason (Sr. also) and will have them over sometime. Ruth phones from downtown office in Missouri and gets 3-5 interviews scheduled each day out of 75-80 calls. Some are nice and others nasty about being bothered. I wrote today for $60 Valley Fed money for the chest. Will pay fees etc. out of 1<u>st</u> check. Have only had to cash 2 bonds $160 to tide us over so far. Let us know best weekend for you for coming to Hutch either later this month or in Oct. I’ll write later about possibilities for Thanksgiving etc. Ruth’s mother will be here next Sun-Wed. She’s bringing the boys to the academy at Hays (David) and Dallis to KU. She’s having a check-up here at center as guess she’ll not been feeling quite up to par. She may sleep on couch in apartment. You could do same sometime and you’re welcome anytime. Aunt Rita is still alive but near the end.

</letter>
<letter date="8-11-57" variation="standard">

Dear Mother, MJ &amp; Bill &amp; Jimmy, Boy, it’s sure been hot today. I’ve just finished 2 hrs of painting and we’re ready to go out and mail this and get a cold drink. 2 or 3 more hrs of painting should finish it off. In the morning we’ll take the furniture back to Aunt Clara’s. We’ll sleep here tomorrow night and then down home the next night since we’ll have to move the bed Tues if we leave early Wed morning. We were late to church this morning so had to sit way up front in the audience. The choir had plenty without us for the anthem. Went to s.s. and then up to Aunt Clara’s afterwards. We all ate at the cafeteria. Mrs. Jennings commented about Jimmy. We spent the afternoon at Aunt Clara’s in front of the air conditioner and came home about 5:30. Yesterday morning got a haircut and checked on some insurance. Worked the rest of the day. Ruth played the piano last evening. Aunt Clara told us about M.J.’s card. That’s about all we’ve done but we have plenty of packing in next two days. Hope all are well and you will make a good baby sitter.

</letter>
<letter date="8-12-57" variation="standard">

Dear Mother and All, Ruth is lying down as she has been sick this evening. Intestines and stomach. I had a touch of my intestinal thing last week but other than that we’ve been pretty well. Last night was hot and sultry again, as it is this evening. Our 1<u>st</u> fan burned out and we had it fixed (no charge) at the General Electric place, but 2 days later it burned out again so we took it back to Macy’s. They didn’t have any more just like it so we paid a dollar more and got a floor circulating fan. I don’t like it as well as it doesn’t put out as direct a breeze but I guess it’ll have to do.Mrs. Laidig was coming to Emporia yesterday to get Deloris and come on up here. However, Deloris decided to stay longer and their Aunt Rita was not expected to live (The one we visited in McCook, Nebraska) so they didn’t make it. We may try to go to Hutch for things Sat and then back by Seneca Sun or just to Seneca and Hutch later. We’ll see how Ruth feels etc. We need to get to Hutch now for clothes (mine) and Ruth thinks her contract is there which she needs to send in. I don’t want to drive on the Labor Day Weekend. The weekend of the 23<u>rd</u> is the wedding in Lawrence. We saw Pat Miller in the cafeteria where we ate Sunday and Ruth may get to play the organ since the organist she had in mind isn’t too anxious to play. I must learn the song, “Bless This House.” We went to 8:30 church at Roanoke Presbyterian and then to s.s. The people are very friendly and we saw the Shays (where Ruth stayed) (Jim Stouts Mother-in-Law) and met the choir director and several others. My old friend in Lawrence Jim Gleason goes there. He also married a Presbyterian girl ha! We ate at cafeteria and stayed home the rest of the day.The work is going OK and it shouldn’t be too long before I’ll be on the thing that will be for the thesis. Dr. Walaszek (30 yrs old) is the one I’m working with. And he’ll be gone on vacation for 2 wks after this one. Fri night we drove to Topeka (on turnpike) and visited Carol and Jack Duvall (Ruth’s old high school friend). We saw the show “The Prince &amp; the Showgirl.” Got home about 1:00 AM. The turnpike is worth the money to avoid worrying about oposing traffic. Sat morning I worked and then Sun afternoon went downtown to mail a letter to Aunt Rita in hopes she would get it while still alive. Ruth may drive home when she hears if she feels like it. I’m confused – Sat afternoon we took the fan to Macy’s in Missouri and did some shoping in the new big shopping center. Ruth has been cleaning, ironing, cooking etc. and more ironing and I’ve been studying and reading in spare time. We will transfer money to nice little bank here. We’ll be seeing you all soon. Wilbur Shoemaker was the fellow I lived with in the Co-Op house and then he told me about Rings and was there with me that 1<u>st</u> summer. We won’t try to go to his wedding. Our phone # is still JO-2-8681 until I let you know. Have heard nothing about piano. There is no elevator – 3 stories we’re on 2<u>nd</u> – not bad climb. The research is more challenging than counting tablets and selling hair oil.

</letter>
<letter date="8-15-57" variation="standard">

Hi – Just a note to tell you we plan to be there Sunday. Don’t know just when we’ll get there, but sometime during the morning. Have to run now, we can talk Sunday.

</letter>
<letter date="8-20-57" variation="standard">

We’re sitting on the couch waiting for supper to finish. The seat cover for the couch hasn’t come as yet but should be here any day. We’ll have to buy an extension cord for the lamp which looks fine with everything. The piano was here when we arrived last Sun about 10:00 PM. We were both tired. I drove all the way except for between Topeka and Lawrence. Ruth has practiced a lot on the piano and is getting her touch back, I guess. Yesterday worked in lab as usual and in the evening we took Pat and Dale’s present over to her house. She wasn’t there so we talked to her Mother awhile about the wedding. (Ruth is definitely playing and Pat was over here this morning). We took a long ride and then read awhile before going to bed. Tonight we may go look at a low bureau to put in the kitchen for the many things for which we have no place. I’ll have to stop by the lab awhile also. I’m taking Fri and Mon off and then will work around Labor day. We may stop in Hutchinson Fri night. We’ll wash car etc. on Sat. We’ll try to get to Hutchinson later in Sept. Ruth is almost half way thru the book M.J. and Bill gave her. Tell hello to all and thanks again for everything Sun.

</letter>
<letter date="8-28-57" variation="standard">

I’ll write this and then we’ll drive downtown and mail it. Today hasn’t been too hot but the apartment is warm this evening. This noon we cashed a war bond to tide things over. We ordered a $55 unfinished chest with drawers and cabinet to put china and some of the things we have on the floor in. Won’t be here for 3 wks. I’ll receive my first check the middle of Sept. The lab work is going OK. The girl who was working in my lab was called home today (Philadelphia) by the illness of her mother and she said she may not return to the job. If she doesn’t and they can’t find someone else it’ll mean more routine work for me to do. I’m starting the series of rabbits Fri and then classes start next week. I’ll have to intersperse research between classes and study at night. Dr. Walaszek won’t be back till after next week.Worked in lab yesterday and in the evening we went to store and spent rest of evening reading. The new slipcover for the sofa came and Ruth has the kitchen curtains finished and is now sewing on a dress. Some of our Christmas presents will probably be things she’ll make. We didn’t receive your letter till we got back Mon. Received your card today. We left here Fri morning. It was rainy early Fri but fine for the wedding. Got to Lawrence just in time for Ruth to try out the organ and then rehersal. We ate lunch downtown and then went to Malott. I saw some of the boys and heard that John Durden, Cecil Caldwell and 2 others had finished their PHD’s in pharmaceutical chemistry. Dr. Wenzel was on vacation. We came back by Westminster and saw the secretary and Mrs. Patton. We, of course, saw Ernie and Mrs. Klein. I got a haircut and Ruth practiced quite a bit in the afternoon. We ate out and then the wedding went OK. I didn’t do as well on Bless This House as I did on Lord’s Prayer. About as nervous as at our own wedding. Ruth did fine and has been practicing on the piano. The reception was upstairs in the Roger Williams Room and then we drove to Emporia. The train bringing Doloris was late and it was 3:00 AM by the time got to bed in Hutch. Up at 7:00 and ate breakfast at Sterling and saw Olin Laughlin. On to Oberlin by 2:30. Rested and went to Ice Cream social in evening and then Sun morning to s.s. (Mr. Laidig teacher) and church. Guest preacher as Rev Kurtz has left. We took them (Mr. and Mrs.) to dinner for their anniversary. In afternoon drove Mrs. Laidig and Ruth to McCook to see Aunt Rita. She still hangs on and was fairly alert when we were there. Back to Oberlin and washed car although dirty now as rained coming back. Saw show Spirit of St. Louis (Lindbergh) and then their slides of their recent trips. Up Mon and packed all things we need from there and left around 11:00. Reached Seneca about 5:00 and showed M.J. and Bill the pictures. Didn’t stay for supper so we could make it to Topeka before dark. Stopped at station but of course didn’t see you. Sorry we didn’t get together. Ate in Topeka and on home by 10:00. 960 miles total and tired. Hope you’re OK and everything.

</letter>
<letter date="9-2-57" variation="standard">

We’re at home again this afternoon just reading and relaxing. I’ve been doing some reading in advance for medical microbiology so I’ll be oriented. This course includes bacteria, worms, viruses etc. It and pharmacology are my only courses left to take. Ruth has been reading some of the many books she brought from home. I went to the building this morning awhile but didn’t stay long as both instruments I’m working with are not working properly. I was ready to start the rabbits last Fri but the big machine went bad and now I can’t get another one to work. I should be able to start sometime this week as the man should have it repaired by then. Classes start Wed afternoon and my classes will largely be in the afternoon so I’ll have the mornings for lab work. I went to church and s.s. alone yesterday morning as Ruth didn’t feel too well. Haven’t seen Jimmy Gleason and wife yet. Choir practice is Thurs night at 7:45 so I guess we’ll try to go. Church goes back to 11:00 services next Sun. We ate at Union yesterday noon and stayed home rest of day. Seemed good to relax this weekend after so much travel the last two. I’m glad we didn’t have to face the Labor Day traffic. Sat morning I worked awhile and then we went out to find some lumber and bricks for a bookcase but the lumber yards were closed on Sat afternoon. Ruth will have to go some morning. She starts to work tomorrow for the Standard Life Ins Company. She’ll work from 1-5 in the afternoons @ $1 an hour. Her job is to phone people about their new health insurance. She is going to Dr. Spanos here at the center.Sat night was our 3<u>rd</u> month anniversary so we pulled the table into the living room, lit the candles and used the new china (which we bought in Oberlin with some wedding gift money $26 for two place settings) and the crystal. <footnote>

  So romantic! 

</footnote>Had a good fried chicken dinner. We took a ride afterwards. We know our way around some parts of the city fairly well now. Hope you’re fine and school gets started OK. We may use some of your furniture money to buy the unfinished cabinet and chest which we’ll finish. Things are still on the floor and nowhere to put them so I guess we need something. You might give the clipping of Henry’s wedding to Herbert and Deloris since they might not have received one. It was in paper yesterday.

</letter>
<letter date="9-9-57" variation="standard">

Received your letter this noon. Mrs. Laidig has not been really sick. She just has bad headaches and it was time for a checkup anyway. Probably due to the strain of the Musgraves etc. like yours is often due to kids etc. We’ll probably stay at home tonight. We may go to the show “The Pajama Game” this week and then Wed night is choir practice rather than Thurs. Dr. Walaszek won’t be back till the end of the week according to one of the professors (Dr. Green) who is already back.Yesterday we went to s.s. and church. Good crowd at both. Ruth got to meet the Gleasons. We’ll have to have them over sometime. We invited the Holladays for my birthday dinner. There were 4 bases and about 3 tenors but with the strong voices there is no problem. We processed in but not out. We ate at home and spent all afternoon cleaning and arranging things in the apartment. The bookshelves look fine. We got two boards 8 feet by 1 foot and used some bricks in the garage which the manager said we could use. Mrs. Laidig arrived before we had finished (about 5:00). I washed the dishes while she and Ruth went to store. Stayed home in evening and had Pepsi-Cola and popcorn. We all read and went to bed about 10. She was tired and they rested late this morning. She left David in Salina at the military academy and brought Dallis on to Lawrence. He’ll be in one of the scholarship halls.Fri night we went to Mission and got some material for a tablecloth to match the pottery. There’ll be 4 at dinner tomorrow night and we don’t have enough china for 4 and Ruth wanted a tablecloth to match the pottery. Sat morning got the boards, ate at a drive-in and went to Lawrence. Spent the rest of the day with Mary and Gary. They have a nice basement apartment about the same size as ours. Hope you’re OK and say hello to Aunt Clara and all.

</letter>
<letter date="9-13-57" variation="standard">

I’m still at the building and will go home shortly. The machine is not fixed yet so I’ve spent most of this week on getting German words down on cards. I have better than 500 words down. These are all words that I have to know since they come from the book I’m reading. I went to the new library dedication this afternoon.  Mrs. Laidig is still here and will probably stay until tomorrow or Sunday. Mr. Laidig said he’d complain if she didn’t stay away from home at least a week. She’s done some reading and has got a rest, I guess, although yesterday she had the ironing all done when Ruth got home. Tonight we’ll eat at a drive-in and then she’s taking us to the movie “The Pajama Game.” I’ll come up here awhile in the morning and then we have nothing else specifically planed for the weekend. The Aunt died last Tues but it was agreed that it was OK if she didn’t try to get home for the funeral yesterday.Last evening I stayed at home while the women shoped on the Plaza. Ruth found some more material to finish trimming the kitchen curtains. Mrs. L finished the tablecloth and napkins last Tues in time for the dinner that evening with Bob Legg. He is a 3<u>rd</u> cousin and not married, about 28, and has a good job as a florolist (flowers) on the plaza. Wed night we all went to choir practice. Herb Skillman and I were the only bases. Not so many there as was a changed night and there were interferences. The women came over here twice this week and we all had lunch in the cafeteria. Wish you could see the apartment now that the bookcase is up. Our cabinet should be here any time. Hope you’re OK and Aunt Clara also. Dr. Walaszek didn’t come back this week so will probably be here Mon.

</letter>
<letter date="9-16-57" variation="standard">

Was glad to receive your letter this morning. I enrolled yesterday and paid $56 fees. We are on the quarter system so that will have to be paid 3 times during the year. I’m enrolled in a full lood (load) including research and thesis. We had a letter from the company in regard to the machine saying they were sending out some new equipment to replace the defective part so I should be able to get back on the research in a few days. I’m enrolled in the microbiology seminar so have to go there twice a week as well as to our own seminar on Fri. Most of my afternoons will be filled with those and classes.Yesterday I took Ruth to work at 1:00 and went after her at 7:00 as they had a sales meeting. She was discouraged with the job today as the man is kinda strict and thinks they ought to make so many appointments each day etc. I’ve told her to work only as long as she feels like it. She thought she’d work long enough to make what we’d paid for a new winter coat which she bought last Sat. It is a black tweed $59 and looks very nice. Our cabinet should be here anytime. We ate at the drive-in yesterday evening since it was late. Sun morning went to church and sang in choir. There were not as many in choir as the first time 5 altos and 4 bases so I guess we were both needed. We told the preacher to write for our letters from the respective churches. We’ll have to go up front for welcoming on Oct 6<u>th</u>. We ate here Sun noon and stayed home the rest of the day resting up as we were both tired. Fri night we all ate at the drive-in (Mrs. Laidig here then) and then went to the show “The Pajama Game.” It was funny. It was late by the time we got home as there was another show along with it.Sat morning Mrs. Laidig left for home. She was going to stop by Lawrence and leave some of Dallas’ things which he left in the car. She was going to drive as far as Belleville and then go to church where one of the former Oberlin preachers now is located. We went downtown (K City, Ks) got my drivers license renewed, ate at a cafeteria, shopped for Ruths coat, watched a parade and looked for a rocker with low arms (for holding a baby etc.). I guess the only ones are antiques. If you ever see a wooden rocker with low arms let us know. We stayed home rest of day. Ruth went to the doctor yesterday and I guess he won’t charge us anything. He said traveling now would be all right if careful etc. I’ll let you know for sure about that weekend but guess it’ll be as good as any. The next weekend I have a dental appointment in Lawrence. Hope you’re all OK and tell Aunt Clara hello. Ruth’s Mothers tests were all OK.

</letter>
<letter date="9-22-57" variation="standard">

Ruth has just finished a letter to her Mother so I’ll write one to you now as I may be too busy tomorrow. The replacement parts for the machine came last week so tomorrow I’ll start the rabbits. Have class four afternoons this next week and an exam on Wed morning. Tomorrow night the Holladays are coming over for my birthday dinner. Thurs night, instead of going to choir practice, we’ll probably go to the pastor’s class for new members. We went to the first one this morning before church. Ruth will work this week and then quit on Fri. The sitting is hard on her and the boss is so cranky. That will give her a total of four weeks of work. We’ll leave here Fri after she gets off work so don’t look for us too early Fri night. We’ll go on the turnpike to Emporia and then the usual way on to Hutch.This morning we sang in the choir after the class. There were 25 in choir including more men than they’ve had in several years, they said. We ate here this noon and spent the afternoon resting, studying and reading. Tonight I have to put a coat of the finish on the chest which finally came yesterday. We may go to the building awhile later and by the drug store. Yesterday I worked in the morning and then listened some to a football game. The chest came and then we went to Sears and bought a wire stand for the telephone. We then came back to the store where we bought the chest and bought the finish ($3.50) and home. In the evening I put on the first coat of finish while Ruth cleaned up the kitchen. We’ll have to put the chest in the kitchen. We listened to the KU football game with T.C.W. in Fort Worth, Texas. Ruth gave me a haircut later. This morning Ruth got up early and put the 2<u>nd</u> coat of finish on. We’re making it red maple. <footnote>

  Dad draws a picture of the cabinet. This is the cabinet that’s still in the dining room in Park Forest and is now antiqued blue.

</footnote>
<letter-image :sources="[5c238387b91ee0fb7e605bdc30df92b6_html_82feafe6.jpg]" />
Fri night it rained and we drove out to the Mission shopping center. Ruth looked at shoes but didn’t buy any. Thurs night went to choir practice and stayed home the other nights last week. Ruth has been sewing new clothes as all the old ones are too tight. Maybe we should stay home from church next Sun. Ha! Hope you and Aunt Clara are feeling OK. See you Fri. Mon Noon – Ruth brought the card and gift up to me and we ate at the cafeteria. Thanks a lot. She finished the chest this morning and has table set etc. for dinner tonight. We’ll be thinking of you. Had a card and gift from Mom and Dad Laidig also. See you Fri night.

</letter>
<letter date="9-30-57" variation="standard">

I’m sitting at my desk while waiting for part of the experiment to finish. I started it this morning, had class from 1-4 and will finish it before going home so won’t have to come back later tonight. We’ll probably stay at home most evenings this week so I can catch up on studying. We had a good trip yesterday and were here by 9:30. We stopped in Emporia for a hamburger etc. It got dark before we got to Emporia but wasn’t bad as is not hilly. We weren’t too tired and were glad we could spend the weekend with you and see Aunt Clara, Mrs. Miller etc. After we got here we read the papers and went to bed. Dr. Walaszek and Dr. Peters went to Osawatomee this afternoon. Our new technician starts tomorrow so this should cut down on some of my routine work. Tell Aunt Clara hello for us.

</letter>
<letter date="10-4-57" variation="standard">

Dear Aunt Clara, Thank you so much for the birthday gift. I combined it with a check from Mrs. Laidig and purchased the house slippers (black corduoroy lined with red terry cloth) and hair brush when I was home last weekend. It was good to see you and Mrs. Miller. You can of course read this to Mother. I just got home from work and have to go back this evening to finish an experiment. We have a new technician in our lab so I don’t have to do as much routine work as I was. Dr. Minz who has been at Osawatomie and brings us the special rabbits suffered a slight heart attack this week and will have to stay in bed for two more weeks. We have worked it out for someone else to do what he was doing so I guess it won’t slow up the work too much. I have class 3 or 4 afternoons a week and do the lab work the rest of the time.Tomorrow afternoon we go to Lawrence for my dental appointment and will see Mary and Gary Corman (the ones to whose wedding we came back to just after ours). We will see Dallas Musgrave also. (One who stayed with Laidigs.) Sunday morning we will sing in choir and then be welcomed into the church. They do this every 3 months when they have communion. Next weekend we may go to Lawrence for the football game since the Laidigs will be there to visit Dallas. They may come here for Sat night. I must start staying at home on weekends to catch up on studying. Last night we met with the session at church (made up of elders) and were formally voted upon. There are quite a few going in including a Baptist from 1<u>st</u> church Wichita, Methodists, Disciples, Russian Orthodox, and 2 or 3 on confession of faith for the first time. Wed night we went to store and spent $19 on groceries. So much we could hardly carry it home. Tues night I had a meeting and Ruth stayed home alone. She’ll probably go over with me tonight. We may take her sewing machine. She finished her 3<u>rd</u> very nice top last night and wore it to church. Mon night I worked late and we stayed at home. Thanks again and tell Mother hello. Hope all are well.

</letter>
<letter date="10-8-57" variation="standard">

We were glad to receive your letter today and trust you are feeling OK. I’m writing this while Ruth is finishing a new black skirt which is only costing $1.70 so I guess we’ve saved quite a bit of money on her clothes. She is going to make me a shirt before too long. Last night we went to the store and I carried home a big sack of groceries $6 worth. We spent over $60 last month but should be able to cut it down this month a little. The milk is what adds up. I’ll receive my first larger check the first of the week. We’ll probably stay home tonight. It has been raining some last night and today. Thurs we’ll go to choir practice etc. Sat we may go to Lawrence and meet the Laidigs. I’m not sure yet whether we’ll go to the game or not. It is parent’s day and Mr. Laidig will want to sit with Dallas in the student section. My identification card from here doesn’t admit as we do not pay the fee that those in Lawrence pay. The next weekend I have to go back to Lawrence to have my teeth cleaned and checked. He filled 3 cavities last Sat and did not see any more. It has been just a year since I was there last.Last Fri night we went to lab so I could finish an analysis. The lab work is going OK although the results so far are not exactly as we thought they might be. We receive the special rabbits from Osawatomie and run 3 experiments a week – Mon Wed and Fri. The technician has turned out to be good help so that relieves me of some of the routine and night work. Dr. Minz has to be in bed another 3 wks. Dr. Walaszek went out to Osawatomie today to see him. Last Sat morning I worked in lab awhile and then emptied the car from our trip. (Kinda slow). The baby thing is still in the trunk. We left for Lawrence and made it just in time for my 2:30 appointment. Ruth went to Mary and Garys and came by for me later. I stopped by Malott to leave a borrowed book and went back to their apartment. Later we picked up Dallas Musgrave (after Ruth and Mary had met the new Sellards house mother), listened to the KU-Colorado game and went with just Dallas to eat. In the evening we visited Lane and Lavone Andies (He Presbyterian pre-ministerial) and came back to the city.Sun we went to last pastor’s class and then to church. I see you had quite a service for world-wide communion Sun also. As I said before 3 were baptized and about 16 others joined by letter. Sang in choir where we had 4 bases. We stayed home the rest of Sun and I caught up on my studying. We went to the store once. Hope you’re all OK and tell Aunt Clara hello. <footnote>

  Mom adds: 

</footnote>Do you have any Christmas suggestions for Mary Janet, Bill and Aunt Clara? If no specific suggestions, what about favorite colors? Of course I’m especially interested in things I can make, unless I can find exactly what I want in a store (doesn’t happen very often, but once in a while it does). Jimmy’s getting a couple of cuddly toys, but that’s all we’re sure of. Thanks for your help.

</letter>
<letter date="10-14-57" variation="standard">

I’ve just finished doing some studying and Ruth is checking some things in catalogs that her Mother brought her from home. We received your letter today and were glad to hear the news. We had a nice note from Aunt Nellie today. She enclosed a congratulations card. I ran an experiment and had class today. I was home about 6:15 and we had fried chicken for supper. The Laidigs brought us some home canned vegetables, fresh tomatoes, pickles, jelly, fresh green beans etc. so we did quite well. We took them to dinner yesterday noon at the cafeteria.The lab work is going OK except that we have unexplained variation in the experiment. As I may have mentioned the man from Osawatomie brings the rabbits twice a week for us to run on Mon Wed and Fri. The girl works in the afternoon while I go to class. Tomorrow night I have a meeting and we’ll probably go to the grocery before that if my check comes tomorrow. Thurs night we’ll go to choir. Last Thurs we didn’t get to go as I had to go up and help move books into the new library building. Everyone in the department was there including Dr. Peters so it was essential that I go. Thurs afternoon I reported on a journal in the microbiology seminar which went OK. Fri night we went back after supper for me to read the experiment and then come home and I helped dust and Ruth finished cleaning and ironing. She washed and ironed all those shirts we brought. We gave 2 of the largest of Uncle Hoy’s to Mrs. Laidig to take home to see if Delbert (one in army) could wear them. I am wearing ties to work when wear regular collar.Sat morning I was sick (either flu or that same intestinal trouble I have) and didn’t feel at all like going to Lawrence – so we didn’t. It was rainy although I guess it cleared off later in the day for the game. We called Dallis at his hall and left word we wouldn’t be there. We missed their buffet luncheon which the Laidigs made in plenty of time after having stopped overnight at Wamego. <footnote>

  This is the town we stopped in to see the Oz Museum on the famous Smith Family Road Trip of 2019. 

</footnote>We rested and were ready for them when they got here about 6:00. They left Dallis’ girl Marlene in Lawrence and picked her up on the way back. We had supper and talked, had popcorn and Pepsi, Ruth and Mother looked at catalogs, etc. in the evening. They stayed in a room across from center where you might and which is cheaper than motel. Sun morning Ruth had good breakfast for all and then they went with us to s.s. and saw us sing in choir. Ate at center and they left quickly as a long drive back. We studied and rested rest of day and went to lab a little bit in the evening. Hope you’re all OK and tell Aunt Clara hello. We’ll write Aunt Nellie. We haven’t sent Deloris’ present yet. Ruth says those are known as cobbler aprons.

</letter>
<letter date="10-20-57" variation="standard">

We’re just about ready to go to bed. I’ve been studying this evening and Ruth has finished a book. I have the 2<u>nd</u> microbiology exam on Wed. This afternoon at 1:00, just after we had got home from eating at cafeteria, M.J. called. They had driven over this morning to Bill’s brothers and said they would stop by to see us. They got here about 4:00. Before that I studied some and we walked to the store for Pepsi and cookies which we served them. Jimmy was fine but was getting tired so they left about 5:15. We walked by some houses that were for sale and then came home and ate our usual Sun evening snack. They asked about Thanksgiving and I said we wanted you all to come here etc. Do you have both Thurs and Fri off? I’m sure of Thurs off but don’t know yet about the other days.Had a good choir this morning with plenty of men. So many bases I had to sit on the tenor side as there were only 3 of them. The quartet that usually sings for the offertory are all paid soloists. The sermon was good. Tomorrow I run an experiment and in the evening the Shays (Mrs. and Miss with whom Ruth stayed when she was student teaching) are coming over for supper. Nothing else this week except study and choir practice. Sat morning I went up to lab awhile. By the end of this week we should know whether we’ll go ahead and finish the series of rabbits with the 2 injections of schizophrenic serum or whether we’ll switch to a series with 3 injections. (They inject the rabbits every 3 days out at Osawatomie.) That Dr. Minz is still in bed I guess. We left here for Lawrence about 12:45 and made it in time for our dental appointments. We both had our teeth cleaned and checked. Mine are now OK but Ruth has a cavity for which we’ll have to go back in 3 wks. Probably a $25 bill all together. We stopped at the union awhile, after shopping a little downtown. We saw Dallis Musgrave and I left some things for Hugh Burford (the new 3<u>rd</u> graduate student in pharmacology at Lawrence). We ate downtown and were back here by 7:00. I studied some then in the evening. Last week I had a meeting Tues night after we had gone to the store. Stayed at home Wed and Fri nights and we went to choir Thurs night. It has been cool some of the time but was sunny and warmer today. Hope you’re all OK and glad to have to card yesterday. Tell Aunt Clara hello.

</letter>
<letter date="10-22-57" variation="standard">

Dear Aunt Nellie, We were glad to hear from you. We’d been planning to write you. Carroll’s studying for a microbiology exam right now. He keeps stopping in the middle of some part and asking if I’ve had a certain disease. Since he’s studying I’m catching up on letter writing – it keeps me quiet. Mary Janet, Bill and Jimmy stopped to see us a little while Sunday afternoon. We were glad to see them and of course we were glad theyhad a chance to see our lovely piano. It’s not only ornamental, but gets lots of use too. Did Carroll’s mother tell you we’ve joined a church here? It’s a much larger one than my home church, but about the same size as Carroll’s. We sing in the choir and enjoy it very much. Since most of the people in it are musically trained we get to do a lot of challenging numbers. Tomorrow I’m to go to my first Circle meeting. That means Carroll will eat at the cafeteria. I’m getting sleepy, so must close. Carroll &amp; Ruth

</letter>
<letter date="10-25-57" variation="standard">

Were glad to receive your letter earlier this week. Running an experiment today and may try to run a couple of normal rabbits tomorrow since we’ll be free tomorrow for the 1<u>st</u> time in several weeks. Mon we start rabbits with 3 injections of serum each since our 1<u>st</u> 9 rabbits with 2 injections each did not show any great change. Had quiz last Wed but don’t know how I did yet. Ruth is starting to crochet a rug and is feeling OK. The dinner with the Shays here last Mon night went fine. We played and sang for them afterwards. Studied Tues and Wed night and went to choir practice. Big crowd of women 3x as many women as men and we started a Christmas Cantata. Will probably have to go to lab tonight. We still are planning for you all to come here Thanksgiving. M.J. talked like maybe they could make it. Hope you’re all OK and you can read this to Aunt Clara. We sure enjoy the piano.

</letter>
<letter date="10-28-57" variation="standard">

I just got home from the building so will start this now. The mail is already here – usually its after one when we get it. We had a letter from “Mom” Laidig saying that Dave and Dallas were home last weekend. I guess Dallas (at KU) gets a little homesick at times. She said Dave is his usual self when at home (He’s at military academy in Salina). They had planned to spend 10 days at Christmas with Eldon in Texas, but think now that they’ll stay at home Christmas since the boys will all be home. Maybe we can have our Christmas at M.J.’s and then we could go on to Oberlin – depending on the weather of course. M.J. talked like they didn’t want to travel much at Christmas. We’ll plan on you all at Thanksgiving.6:00 PM – Just home from lab. Had classes from 1-5 and then finished reading the analysis which Rheta had finished for me. Today was the 1<u>st</u> run with 3 injections of serum and there was no difference. We’ll run 2 or 3 more of 3 injections and some with just one injection and if still no difference we’ll call it quits on this particular phase and start on one of the many other related problems. If I don’t get something real positive by the end of Dec I probably won’t get to go to the meetings. To go and present a paper is largely for the experience but I may be needed here in April. We had figured that the rabbits would show a difference and that I would present that work. With the results showing no difference we probably won’t present it. (Negative results are very seldom published). The work will still go in my thesis however.By the way, could you mail us some stationery? We are clear out of the Mys Smith envelopes and low on paper. Ruth writes a lot of letters on it. We won’t quite make it this month on my check so will have to cash a bond. We made it last month with Ruth’s earnings. Tonight I will study and tomorrow night we’re having Mr. and Mrs. Alex Edwards for supper. They’re a young couple who sing in the choir. He is a conscientious objector, a pre-ministerial student and is working at the med center (serving his time here I guess). There are a lot of young fellows over there who are COs. Thurs night is choir and then Fri and/or Sat nights we go to some free music concerts here in the city. No exams till a week from Wed. Yesterday we went to the 99 class (ours) coffee before s.s. and then s.s. and church. 29 in choir which fills the loft. The wife of the bass soloist died last week of cancer. The quartet of soloists are paid. We ate at the cafeteria and I had to go by the lab a few minutes. We stayed at home and rested, studied, read, played piano and <u>sang</u> etc. the rest of the day. Our regular Safeway store is closed because of the meat-cutters strike which you may have read about. Had to go to a little neighborhood store. Sat I ran an experiment by myself on 2 rabbits (no serum – normal or schizophrenic). Through at 5 and we went to store and stayed home in the evening. Studied and played and sang. Fri night worked at lab awhile to get ready for Sat. Tell Aunt Clara and all hello and hope you’re all OK. Ruth wrote Aunt Nellie the other day.

</letter>
<letter date="10-30-57" variation="standard">

Dear Mother, We’re spending the evening at home tonight. Carroll’s studying and I’m reading. We had company for supper last night. Marilyn and Alex Edwards, a young couple at church. He’s going into the ministry as soon as they can scrape together enough money for him to go to seminary. We had pork chops creole (pork chops with onion, tomato and green pepper on top, cooked over rice and flavored with bouillon cubes), pear halves filled with grated carrots and raisins, baking powder biscuits (the first I’d ever made) with Mom’s homemade elderberry jelly and pumpkin tarts topped with whipped cream and nuts. About 9 we had popcorn and cider since that’s sort of “Halloweeny.” We’re planning to go to an organ concert and home show and a Philharmonic concert this weekend, so Carroll’s trying to get lots of studying done before then. The only one we’re not sure is free is the organ concert, but we’re willing to pay for it if we have to, since we both want to hear E. Power Biggs very much.I have a Sunday outfit put together at last. It’s a blue textured winter cotton and I should be able to do different things with it. Later on (when I get so tired of my wardrobe I could scream) I’ll make one more dress outfit – either a deep rich red or a brown. I have the Christmas sewing all cut out and I’m looking for old nylons now to use as stuffing in the toys. Mom said she’d send me some and I have some so I hope I’ll have enough. Carroll said he didn’t do much in lab today (they ran an analysis, but Rheta the assistant did most of the work this afternoon). I certainly didn’t do much. I lay down to rest for “just a little bit” at 1:30 and woke up at 4. I guess our late hours are catching up with me. We’ve been up until midnight every night this week. There’s a radio program from 10:20 – 12:00 that we especially like and they have had programs this week that we wanted to hear the last number. Last night it was Rachmaninoff “The Bells” which is seldom heard.

</letter>
<letter date="11-5-57" variation="standard">

I’ll start this now but won’t mail it till after the mail comes tomorrow since I didn’t hear from you today. We’re at home tonight and Ruth is cleaning up some. She has on the brown maternity dress (linen) which we received by mail from M.J. Sat. That gives her 3 complete outfits and 3 other tops. I have plenty of clothes for this winter so we won’t have to spend money on me. After I finish this letter I will start my final review for the 3<u>rd</u> microbiology exam Wed at 11:00 AM. I’ll start 2 rabbits Wed morning before the test and then Rheta will finish them. Fri Dr. Walaszek and I give the journal reports for pharmacology seminar. Thats my first time up in that seminar.Today we ran the last of the rabbits that had received the 3 injections of serum (3 days apart). Since these showed no difference in serotonin Wed we start a series that will have received only one injection – on the day before. Assuming that we don’t show any significance there we will run 3 or 4 sets and then call it quits on the serotonin. Next, we will analyze the rabbit brains for Substance P. This is a substance about which very little is known. We think that schizophrenic serum may cause it to increase in the rabbits brains. I might be able to report on it at the meetings if we can get a change and can get the work done by the end of December. Tomorrow I’m getting together with Dr. Walaszek to decide on Fri and then I’ll study at home till seminar at 4:00 (micro-biology). <footnote>

  Grandmother made ink marks in the margins next to the following sentences. 

</footnote>Tell Aunt Clara that we have just finished studying all the bacteriology which of course is what Ola took. Bacteriophages (what Ola worked on) have been mentioned and will be studied more later although not much is done in that area anymore because of the antibiotics. Tomorrow night we are invited out to dinner with Bob Legg (the fellow we had over for supper who is Ruth’s distant cousin) – Wed night we are going to the all church dinner and Thurs night is choir practice if I have time. Fri night we plan to go to Lawrence for the Mariners meeting (Presbyterian young married group to which Mary and Gary belong). We’re staying all night at Lane and Lavone Andrist’s and will come back Sat.Yesterday morning we got to church early since we thought our class was having another coffee. It was another class that was having it this time so we stopped there after being invited. We then went to s.s. and church. Good sermon and crowd. We have started Thanksgiving music and a Christmas cantata. We ate at the cafeteria and spent the rest of the day at home resting, reading, studying etc. Although I didn’t sing yesterday tell Aunt Clara how much we enjoy the piano. A man from the church stopped by to leave us some new member literature.Sat morning went to lab and in the afternoon we drove around to see new houses on display for the home show. The cheapest we saw were $22,000. The most expensive was a $65,000 Chinese style. We had planned to go to the Katz Drug Co show with Lily Dons and the Philharmonic Orchestra but were too tired. Fri night we went to hear E. Power Biggs the famous organist. Last Thurs we went to choir as usual. Hope you haven’t had the flu. Mrs. Laidig was in the hospital last week with a bad throat which she gets quite often. We have had beginnings of something but not down yet. Ruth feels fine. The other 3 graduate students in microbiology have all had bad colds or flu. Tell Aunt Clara hello. M.J. wrote that we might go there. OK if Ruth’s doctor says OK. Ruth worked on Christmas wrapping paper etc. yesterday and today started on some of the sewing.

</letter>
<letter date="11-12-57" variation="standard">

We were glad to receive your letter today and to hear about your trip etc. Ruth is much better and walked to the store this afternoon. It has been damp and rainy this afternoon and evening but not quite as cold as it was. This evening Ruth walked to the church and back with me as I had to go to a meeting of the men for the every member canvass this coming Sunday afternoon. There were 50 out the 67 there this evening. I guess they’ve had trouble getting people because of so much sickness. I’ve had a touch of flu and cold for the last week also, but didn’t get clear down as did Ruth. We get plenty of rest and eat good meals (I’ve glad Ruths cooking again ha! as I admit I’m not much of a cook.) so that keeps our resistance up. Ruth likes to try various recipes and there are always very good. Tonight we had pineapple upside down ham loaf with apple peanut butter crisp for desert.Yesterday evening I studied some for a pharmacology test which I had this morning. I should have made a 100 but I missed some. I always make more out of some of the questions then I should and as a consequence answer them wrong. I’m going to quit worrying about these exams and just do the best I can. I’m always too concerned about making a certain grade. This week in lab finishes up the serotonin problem. As I’ve mentioned before there was nothing of great significance shown by the work. However, Dr. Walaszek said we would publish it along with the work he and Dr. Minz did which turned out to be very significant. Henceforth, I should get my name on the paper along with theirs. We’ll start on the Substance P problem next week along with 1 or 2 minor problems. No, the serotonin problem would not necessarily have turned out any different if someone else had done it. We have nothing special planned at night this week except for choir practice. I have plenty of work although no classes again till Fri. Next week we cover all the fungus infections and the following week is exams.Ruth goes to the doctor tomorrow so I’ll let you know what he says about traveling for Thanksgiving. Sun afternoon after church is a dinner for those canvassing. Tomorrow night Ruth goes to her first circle meeting. Last Sun I went to church and sang in choir. Usual crowd and good sermon on tithing since is budget time. Stayed home rest of daying studying and resting. I walked to church Sun and I walked to store last night. Was just barely able to carry the load of groceries home $8. Walking saves gas and is good exercise and its really a short distance. Last Sat I went to lab awhile in morning and spent rest of day at home as usual. Listened to football games. Ruth stayed in bed most of time till yesterday. Hope you’re all staying well and tell Aunt Clara that Ruth practiced a lot of Bach today on the piano. Neither one of us have had flu shots.

</letter>
<letter date="11-17-57" variation="standard">

Dear Mother, Carroll’s studying fungus infections tonight. He says he’s studying ahead, trying to get over everything they’ll cover by finals. Today’s been a cold and dreary day. It rained a little off and on and there were a couple of claps of thunder, but it seems to be all over for now. The weather didn’t seem to interfere with canvassing, though. We went over to church about 5:30 for coffee and donuts and to check on how things were coming and with about 100 less pledges in than their total last year, over $1000 more had been pledged. So there should be no trouble making the budget. The canvassers were served dinner at the church so I had to eat alone. With no incentive, it was after one before I got around to eating. Carroll had four places to go and found three of them at home on his first try. The other person (a teacher whose first name is Olga) was there when we stopped later on our way to the church. While Carroll was canvassing, I got a good start on the embroidery on a pair of pillowcases for Deloris Musgrave’s Christmas (for her hope chest).We went to downtown K.C., Mo yesterday for the first time since we’ve been here. We had to wait until the football games were mostly over, so we didn’t do much wandering after we got there. We got some small remnants for doll clothes for my nieces (all of them were from expensive materials and we got them for 75 cents), some yarn for mom (she’s making a cover for the New Jersey baby, after which she’ll make one for us) and we looked at some tie bars for Dad, but didn’t see any that “looked like him.” Carroll has another home haircut – the best one yet. I’m getting more confident and actually almost enjoy cutting his hair now. We did that while listening to football games yesterday. Carroll was <u>most</u> elated over Oklahoma’s defeat. (I thought it was high time, too!)Friday night we went to the grocery store and spent most of our cash. That seems to be so easy to do in a grocery store, after all we have to eat! Eggs were the cheapest they’ve been in a month (.49 @ dozen), so we got two dozen since we have to use so many. Thursday I washed just about two hours too early – they finished installing a new automatic just as I finished washing! The mechanic wanted to check it, though, so I got my blue outfit washed free. After this, Thursdays won’t seem like such bad days. We walked to choir Thursday night. There was a good turnout and we were put through our paces quite thoroughly. Wednesday night I went to my first circle meeting (the young mothers’ group for women with children under school age). They meet at night so the women won’t have to worry about finding baby-sitters – their husbands can take over! Georgann Skillman (wife of a fellow Carroll knew at the KU School of Pharmacy) picked me up and it’s a good thing she did because I’d never have found my way clear out to that house! Carroll says he accomplished quite a bit while I was gone. Maybe I should leave him more often. (Really I don’t talk to him when he’s studying.) I must write some other letters, so I’ll close for now.

</letter>
<letter date="11-21-57" variation="standard">

I’ll try to get this in the box before the man comes by. We were glad to have your letter and hear the news. My exam is Friday morning (day after Thanksgiving) at 10:00 AM so it doesn’t seem practical for us to try to go to Seneca for Thurs. Why don’t you plan to come ahead on the train Wed evening as you said you would. We’ll meet you at the union station. Let us know what train, for sure, that you’ll be on. There is a union Thanksgiving service Thurs morning 9:00 – that we could go to. We’ll write M.J. and Bill that we don’t think we can make it there. Let me know if you want me to reserve a room at the motel or at one of the rooming houses close by. The Laidig’s stayed in one and it is of course cheaper than the motel. Tell Aunt Clara that we’re sorry she won’t be able to make it in this direction. Tell her to have a nice time – we’ll write her soon either in Hutch or Clovis. Had letter from Mrs. Laidig yesterday saying that her Mother (91 yrs) had fallen in the bathtub and broken a rib. I guess she’s satisfactory (for her age) or we would have heard.Ruth did the washing today and is finishing some needlework on Deloris Musgrave’s pillowcases at the present time. She addressed 2000 handbills the past 2 days to earn $10 and should receive some more tomorrow. We’ve both been fairly well since the flu bout. Tonight is choir practice and then plenty of studying up to exam time. In lab we’re working out some of the preliminary details before starting another major research problem. We stayed at home Mon, Tues, and Wed evening and I studied etc. My seminar (1 hr) in pharmacology is Jan 3<u>rd</u>, so I must get started soon. I have 2 journal reports in seminars before that. No time for German right now. I suppose you had some snow there. It was just colder here on that day. Hope you’re feeling OK and don’t work too hard. Tell Aunt Clara hello if she hasn’t left yet. See you next week.

</letter>
<letter date="12-5-57" variation="standard">

I meant to write much sooner but just didn’t get down to it. We were both so glad you could be here some last week and will look forward to seeing you sometime during Christmas week. Today is warmer and windy and yesterday was warmer also. I had class this morning and then worked in lab awhile. Ruth did a big washing and we’re going down now to finish hanging up the ones she didn’t get hung up this morning. We received your card today and were glad to hear that you made it OK. Sorry you had to stand some. On the way out there was no notice posted saying your train would be late so we decided you wouldn’t have to wait too long.Mary and Gary Corman are coming over Sun afternoon. Had a letter from Mrs. Laidig at noon saying that Ruth’s grandmother is better – still in hospital I guess. Tonight is choir practice and I’ll study after that. I’m writing this at the building and will mail it here in hopes that you’ll get it tomorrow. I’ll stay home tomorrow night as have to study for microbiology exam Sat morning at 9:00. I must work in earnest next week on my seminar so I won’t have so much to do over Christmas vacation. We’re getting set now to run that Sub. P next week. If the results show a difference I assume that I will give it and the first problem at the meetings.Ruth is working hard on the doll clothes and has 7-8 made already. We went to the bank at noon and cashed a bond so she could finish the Christmas shopping this afternoon. She also had a rehersal for some play the women are giving. Last night we went to the regular church dinner - $1 each and a huge turkey dinner. I had a touch of something Mon and Tues but felt like eating OK last night. Hope you’re feeling OK and try to get all the rest you can. We’ll go to Christmas vespers in Lawrence on Dec. 15<u>th</u>. We’ll probably buy our Christmas tree sometime this week. Tell Aunt Clara hello if she’s home. Its now 5:30 – I called Ruth and told her I’d be a little late.

</letter>
<letter date="12-16-57" variation="standard">

I’ll start this tonight and finish it tomorrow. We’re at home this evening and Ruth will probably sew. She has just about finished the doll clothes but has some matching shirts left for Eldon, Mary Jane and Larry. Eldon may be discharged from the Coast Guard around Christmas time. This is earlier than he had figured on and is because of a shortage of funds or something like that. He would prefer to stay in till April, as previously planned, since he would get more G.I. Bill money for school. He wants to get a doctor’s degree in education. He has several schools in mind, including KU. KU has a basketball game with Marquette (Milwaukee) tonight and we’ll probably listen over the radio. We listened to the first three games last week.Thurs night is choir as usual – we’ll work on the cantata which will be given Sun Dec 22<u>nd</u> at 4:30. What time is your school out? If its out Fri you could come here that weekend and go with us to Seneca on Monday. Ruth has that dentist appointment in Lawrence on the 21<u>st</u> (Sat). This coming Sunday we plan to go to Lawrence to hear and see the Christmas Vespers. We’ll stay for Westminster. Yesterday morning we were up fairly early but didn’t make it in time for s.s. as we had some cleaning up and cooking to do in preparation for Mary and Gary Corman.Sat night we left the car out as a car was parked in front of our garage and I couldn’t back in. It snowed and as a consequence Sun morning I had to clean all the windows, which took some time as it was a wet snow and had frozen some. Today was warmer and most of the snow is gone. The crowd at church was not quite as large as usual. There were only 2 basses until later on in the service when Herb Skillman came in. He has been out of the choir since their baby was baptized. There was a new bass at rehersial last Thurs night which makes a total of 8 if we’re all there at one time. We ate at the cafeteria after church and then finished getting ready for the Cormans. They came about 3:00 (drove from Lawrence of course) and we talked and strung popcorn for our Christmas tree (about 3 ft tall) and in front of the window on the bookcase. We ate some of the popcorn and then we took them to see the Plaza lights. Supper was cranberry jelly, relishes and crab cheese fondue and peppermint junket for dessert. We had tried it once before and found it to be very good. They left about 8:30 and I studied awhile before we went to bed about 10:30.Sat morning I had an exam over fungus infections and then worked in lab awhile. (Today was “blue Monday” for us in lab as we lost about 2/3 of the Substance P which we were extracting and had worked hard on. Nobodys fault in particular, it was just sucked over in the evaporator. We start the analysis for sub P in the schizophrenic rabbits this Wed.) Sat afternoon we went shopping. Finished everything needed for Christmas and bought the tree and decorations. Bought a bundle of greens to use on the table and at the base of the tree. Sat night cleaned the apartment and listened to KU-Northwestern game. Last Fri night we stayed home and I studied for the exam. Thurs night we went to choir practice – big crowd there. We took Dr. Park home (She is a resident in pediatrics and is from Korea).Received your letter today and one from Mrs. Laidig. Grandmother is home now and gaining slowly. Mom (Mrs. L.) almost burned herself when Grandmothers stove blew up slightly after she thought the gas had dissipated. She thought it was automatic and would light itself. Thats about all the news up to now. Let us know when your school is out. I trust you don’t have classes Mon or Tues and we would be glad to have you come here if you can. Glad to hear that Aunt Clara made it home OK. Tell her hello for us. She’s of course welcome to come with you also. P.S. The hose came today. <u>Thanks.</u> Had some from Oberlin today also.

</letter>
<letter date="12-16-57" variation="standard">

’ll start this now and mail it after I receive your letter. We had 6 rabbits from Osawatomie this morning. Dr. Minz and Bill Sledge, his assistant, brought them in. Dr. Minz feels pretty good but gets kinda tired and a little shaky at times. This afternoon I have class and then back to lab to help make the extracts for the Substance P. Tomorrow we will assay how much Sub. P is present by using the amount of contraction given by a small
<letter-image :sources="[5c238387b91ee0fb7e605bdc30df92b6_html_204e9148.jpg]" />
piece of guinea pig intestine. I had never done this type of biological assay before – so it is good experience for me. Tonight I’ll have to study for a microbiology test on Wed morning. It will be over virus infections. Tomorrow night is an extra choir rehersal but we told Mr. Blim that we couldn’t make it on account of my exam. We’ll go to the regular rehersal Thurs night. Fri night we’re going over to the Holladays for dinner. Next Sat morning I have class and then back to Lawrence in the afternoon for Ruth’s dental appointment. Sunday is the cantata as I’ve mentioned before.Yesterday morning went to s.s. and church. Our choir has grown. All 8 bases were there and 2 of them had to sit with the tenors. As you may remember there is not much room for expansion in the choir loft. We brought Dr. Park (Korean lady doctor) back to the center and then ate at the cafeteria. We left for Lawrence by 1:00 and were in Lawrence at 2:00 via the turnpike (45 cents one way but worth it). We parked near the union and walked to Hoch Auditorium and we just about the first ones there. I called Dallas Musgrave and he said he’d meet us at Westminster. I stopped at Haworth and talked to the lady in biochemistry who I knew last spring. At the vespers we sat with the Herb Skillmans from our church. We were surprised to see them there shortly after we arrived. The tenor in the quartet sang in the choir as he is taking graduate work at KU. After the vespers we walked back to the union and then Ruth went to the Westminster House. I stopped off and said hello to Hugh Burford (3<u>rd</u> graduate student in pharmacology) and Lee Murray. We sat with Mary, Gary and Dallas. Afterwards we talked with several people including Mr. Patton’s father who is a good friend of Ruths. We stopped by Mary and Garys awhile and then home by 11:00. We took Mary and Gary a box of homemade candy which Ruth had made. It took longer to get home as there was a heavy fog and couldn’t go over 40 m.p.h. Had to follow the white line and couldn’t have made it without the turnpike.Sat morning went to lab awhile. Ruth mailed the package to John’s with the 12 doll dresses. Each one having 2 pieces meant more work than she had bargained for. She has more sewing left this week and today is sewing on a present for Aunt Lenore (Ruth’s Mother’s sister). She has yet to make the matching shirts for Eldon, Mary Jane and Larry. Eldon is definitely being discharged from the coast guard now and they’ll be home for Christmas. He may go to Fort Hays State the 2<u>nd</u> semester.Sat afternoon we stayed home. I studied and Ruth made a little cloth horse for David Holladay (stuffed with hose). We cleaned the apartment and the Holladays came about 7:30. We listened to the KU game and had cocoa and angel food cake with orange sauce (and nuts). We gave the Holladays a box of candy also. Fri night we went to bank (open till 6:00 and not open on Sat) and then had hamburgers at a drive-in. We then took a box of candy to Bob Legg (Ruth’s 3<u>rd</u> cousin – he’s single). Didn’t study much in evening as was tired and eyes hurt.Had a cold last week. Last Thurs night we went to choir and on Wed I worked in lab while Ruth went to circle. Stayed at home Mon and Tues (Will mail this tomorrow after I hear from you – Received your letter today (Tues). To avoid too much driving at night etc. we had planned to leave here sometime Monday, probably being in Seneca late Monday afternoon. We would stay there all night in motel and drive to Oberlin on Tues afternoon. If you could come a day earlier here that would be fine. I do think that our leaving on Mon would be best. We could meet you here. Let us know your definite plans.

</letter>
<letter date="12-26-57" variation="standard">

I’ll write this now and trust that you will get it tomorrow or Sat. We had a good trip out and arrived about 6:45. Eldon, M.J., Larry and all were waiting for us and Mrs. L had dinner ready. Ruth had said for them not to expect us before 4:30. We stopped twice along the way and the traffic wasn’t bad until after dark. We opened the presents in the evening since the dinner was held here, due to the illness of Catherine Weyeneth at McCook. There were 20 here yesterday. I studied some in the evening and this afternoon. Tonight we go to Danbury Neb for dinner. We’ll leave here Sat morning, allowing plenty of time to get to Seneca before dark. We’ll stay overnight and leave Sun at your convenience if someone wants to ride with us. Love, Ruth &amp; Carroll

</letter>