---
title: 1958
description: "A year in which Dad paints walls and furniture (who knew?!), worries about his German language test (he is teaching it to himself in his spare time), and develops an inexplicable affinity for the word henceforth <span class=\"wingdings\"></span>. He does not drink any beer. Sometimes Mom does not sew. Sometimes she cleans and bakes and paints, cooks meatloaf, and plants flowers. Sometimes she escapes across the street to watch TV. Lesle is born, and Dad waxes eloquent: “We all think she is certainly nice.”"
previewImage: 9f543bab329ee328cc33343425405e1f_html_6ede0aee.jpg
---
<letter date="1-2-58" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

Dear Mother, I’ll write this now and mail it on the way back up to lab. I have to work awhile tonight and then home to finish going over the seminar. We ran a new experiment today and it took longer than I expected. We’ll have to miss choir practice tonight. After seminar tomorrow I’ll have 2 wks until next exam so can catch up on studying and other things. We may go shopping for some kind of a phonograph this weekend. We received 2 albums of records from John and Esther (New Jersey). Each album is a single long-playing record that is equivalent to several of the old-fashioned records.Yesterday we stayed home all day. We slept late and in the afternoon and evening I cleaned and polished shoes, took down the Christmas tree, listened to some of the bowl game, and worked on my seminar. Ruth started her new outfit (my gift) and today she finished the skirt. This morning she did a two weeks washing. Received your card Tues. Thanks for your gifts etc. We’ve finished the cookies. Dr. Walaszek didn’t back to work till Tues as they were 12 hrs late getting in. They had to drive through snow and ice in Illinois. We got back just in time as it started snowing here Mon night and the streets were quite bad. Had a good trip after we left you Sun night. Ruth was more tired than on the going trip but is fine now. We haven’t had the car out since we got here Sun night. We were here by 6:00. Mon night we listened to the KU-K State game and I worked on seminar. Must get this to mail – am now at the lab. It was good that we could all be together and tell Aunt Clara hello.

</letter>
<letter date="1-7-58" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

We were glad to receive your letter today – and also the check. With that check we can probably make it till my next check comes without having to cash another bond. I’ll have to cash a bond before long as I haven’t paid my 2<sup>nd</sup> quarter fees. Today has been very cold although most of the snow and ice melted during the last few days. We got the car out last Fri evening but couldn’t get it back in the garage because of the ice in the driveway. Today at lab we had a new gas heater to take the chill off. Those metal windows aren’t very tight.This morning I had class from 8-11. The rest of the day we cleaned up the lab. Ever since I came I’ve been meaning to rearrange some of shelves as we did this afternoon. I went over to the library later in the afternoon. My next exam is a week from Sat over the parasitology portion (worms, protozoa etc). Tomorrow Dr. Minz and Bill Sledge (his assistant) will be in with some more rabbits to analyze for Sub P. Sometime this evening Elisabeth and Ken will be over to let us look at some baby clothes that we can borrow. Sat afternoon Ruth bought a pattern for a layette. This minute she’s using the buttonholer on her new outfit, which will be finished when the buttonholes are done. She has material for another top which she will probably make next. My shirt comes after that – naturally I’m not in as big a hurry as she is. I wore my new grey sweater for the first time today.Tomorrow evening I’ll probably have to go back to lab since the Sub P extracts of rabbit brain take a long time to evaporate to dryness. Tomorrow I’m calling the Shryock Realty Co. about our falling ceiling. I’ll ask him to let us know if a larger apartment becomes available here since we’re so crowded. Thurs night will be choir practice as usual. Will try to go this time as had to miss last wk. Sat we may go the Government Employes Mart (for any governmental employee – city, county, state etc) and see what they have in Hi-Fi phonographs.Yesterday evening we stayed in and I studied awhile. We went to bed early because of the 8:00 class this morning. Sun morning went to s.s. at the new earlier time of 9:30. Ruth sat in the audience and I sang in the choir (5 basses). <footnote>(looks like the second ‘s’ was added later <span class="wingdings"></span>)</footnote>  Ruth has decided not to sing from now on since she gets out of breath etc. She will still go to choir practice with me, however. By the way, I couldn’t find anything in the papers about Aunt Martha’s will that looked like I should sign it – what do you think? Sun noon we ate at home since we have so much meat left out of that that Mr. Laidig. We may give Ken and Elisabeth some of the bacon since we don’t eat much fat. Today we had codfish pudding. Last night we had cod chowder. We still have enough meat left for 6-8 meals.Ken and Elisabeth just left after stopping by. I thought I’d get this out in the mailbox before the pickup but I won’t now. I’m listening to the KU-Oklahoma basketball game. Ruth just corrected the first part of the letter. Ken and E. left a bundle of baby clothes for us to look over. We gave them a package of bacon and a fish. Sun afternoon we stayed home and I studied awhile after we stopped by the grocery store. We stayed home Sun evening.Sat morning I had an 8:00 class and then talked awhile with Dr. Walaszek. I left just in time so we could drive to the court-house and get our licence plates. Had to wait in line and took an hour altogether. We ate downtown and then shopped awhile. Bought a towel and washcloths to send to Mrs. L for a hostess gift since she mentioned she was so short on washcloths and then they gave us all the meat. Bought a contour sheet for M.J.’s birthday. Spent the rest of the day at home. Thurs night went back to lab a bit and then home and went over my seminar. Fri the seminar went OK. Dr. Walaszek complimented me and said Dr. Peters said I did fine. Dr. Peters attended for the 1<sup>st</sup> time in sometime. We went to bank and grocery afterwards. Fri night we went to the Student Union and watched TV for a couple of hours. Hope you’re all OK and tell Aunt Clara hello. Ruth has been practicing again and doing some reading.

</letter>
<letter date="1-11-58" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

We were glad to receive your letter last Tues. We have just returned from the Government Employees Mart in K.C., Missouri. It is that place, which I think I mentioned, for government employees of all kinds. They have everything from a prescription department on down. We bought a set of those snap-on chains for the rear tires of the car $6.50. We also bought a new Hotpoint refrigerator at G.E.M. ($225). The reason for buying the refrigerator is that we’re having to move. I called Mr. Brown last week about the plastering and he said he’d have a man around in a few days (the man never came). At the end of the conversation I asked him if he would give us first chance on any apartments that might vacate in the next few months in either one of the two building. At that point he said “You know we don’t usually allow children.” I said “No, I didn’t.” The sheet of rules and regulations we received when we first rented said to not allow children to mark the walls, leave their toys out etc. so we never had any indication of his policy. It is true that the only baby we’ve ever seen in the building belonged to a family which shortly thereafter moved.Thurs night before choir practice we looked at a couple of places, neither of which were satisfactory. Last evening we looked at a furnished apartment which would have been OK if it had been larger. There was very little storage space. This morning I had lectures from 8-10 and then worked in lab a bit and talked to Dr. Walaszek. It was after 12 and Ruth had to call me to get me home for lunch. Afterwards we went to see a place, but it had been rented that morning. We saw one other place and then went to the one which we rented. It is a small house, 2 bedrooms, living room 15’ x 18’ (at least), dining room, kitchen and a half basement. There is a fair amount of yard and a 2 car garage. The rent of $90 makes it compare very favorably with other places we saw. The owner is in Florida and his daughter and husband showed it to us. It was built in 1947. We said we’d do some painting if he’d furnish paint etc. The living room and dining paper has a few bad spots but not too bad. We will have to buy a stove, bed, some chairs, your davenport, etc. This’ll kill some of the savings but we feel we might as well get it now and enjoy it. The refrigerator we bought was supposedly around $500 new. Late 1956 model.Tomorrow morning we take Dr. Park to s.s (Korean). That Dr. Lee you met has to leave before too long. I have to start studying tomorrow for my exam next Sat over parasitology. We’ll start moving in the evenings, after that, and will be out of here by Feb 1<sup>st</sup>. The address is 827 Shawnee Ave., Kansas City, Kans. and we’ll have a new telephone #. You’ll have to plan on coming up for a weekend after we’re settled.Sun afternoon – Its cloudy and colder today. We took Dr. Park to s.s. this morning and were there on time for a change. We brought her home afterwards and stopped by lab a minute and then by the hospital to get stamps. We’ve just finished the dishes and have to study this afternoon. We had oven-glazed chicken for dinner with broccoli, carrots, etc. Tell Aunt Clara hello. Does she leave shortly? We’ll write her. You come some weekend she’s gone. Take care of yourself and get all the rest you can.

</letter>
<letter date="No Date –" variation="standard" :has-footnote="true">
<template #footnote>

Mom writes

</template>
Dear Mother, I’ll just slip this in Carroll’s letter. Your package came Friday and I put it on the coffee table unopened until Saturday. Carroll says that’s the only reason I didn’t complain about getting up that morning – I opened it before I got dressed. Of course you know blue is one of my favorite colors, so thank you!When we got up this morning there were 9 inches of snow and by 9 o’clock, we had 10. None of the schools in town are open today and although buses are running, they’re way behind schedule. If the men from the gas company will come by and take me up to the house I can go up, otherwise I can’t. If the snow stops by afternoon so the city can get the streets cleared we’ll go up tonight. Otherwise we’ll stay here.My narcissus is about to have two blooms on it. The other two bulbs aren’t big enough yet to bloom. We’ll have iris this spring because there’s already a little border around the porches. I want to plant a few little flowers too, so we’ll have flowers this summer. Seem to be out of room, so better stop. Thanks again! Ruth

</letter>
<letter date="1-20-58" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

We were glad to receive your letter today and to hear the “good news” that M.J. and Bill will be moving to Newton. They had told us earlier about the possibility at McPherson, and had said to not mention it to you until they knew for sure. Since we never heard any more we assumed that it must have fallen through.It started raining yesterday afternoon and it finally turned to snow this afternoon. It is still snowing although it is not real cold. We stayed at home this evening although we had planned to paint and work at the house. It was beginning to get slick and I found that the snap over chains I bought at G.E.M. will not go on the tires. I thought there was an opening through the wheel but discovered there wasn’t. I spent most of the evening loading the trunk with bricks, books and other things.Ruth has to go to the house tomorrow to let them in to turn on the gas. With the car weighed down she should be able to make it OK. This evening she wrapped M.J. and Eldon’s birthday packages and got them ready for mailing. She started the kitchen curtains this evening – painted designs on unbleached muslin. We bought material Sat for the living room curtains. Right now she is finishing sewing on a top the material of which we bought before Christmas.All the furniture will arrive Fri except for the G.E. washer which will come on Sat. The telephone will be transferred Fri and I’ll let you know the new # as soon as possible. We’ll have to hire someone to move the piano and chest. We are carrying everything else in the car.Wed noon Ruth has association meeting and is trying to finish the new top for then. She has to do some cooking to take also. She went to the Dr. this morning and he said everything was fine. He said Jr. is fairly good sized and we could expect it before Mar 12 for sure. Probably a week or two early I imagine.Tomorrow night we’ll try to work at the house. Ruth got light blue paint this morning for the bedroom. The people are paying for the paint and I’m putting it on <footnote>(!)</footnote> . We’ll try to have the painting and cleaning done by Fri and then finish moving in on Sat.Sat night is a pharmacology dinner at Dr. Greens house. I have plenty of lab work this week and only one class. A sophomore medical student will work with me on one of our problems. Dr. Lee leaves at the end of the week. The exam on Sat went OK. This Fri I have journal report at our seminar so must get that done sometime.After we’re moved and settled I plan to start German and study it regularly this spring since microbiology will be over. I’ll study it hard next summer and try to pass the exam in Sept. I could then take prelims in Nov or Dec and finish 9 months or so after that. Bob plans to finish this coming Oct and will probably stay here awhile afterwards. He plans to go on to medical school.Yesterday we took Dr. Park to s.s. and church. I was appointed song leader for the coming year in s.s. Ruth has sung in the choir the last 2 Sundays. We ate at home and worked all afternoon at the house. Did odd jobs here in the evening. Sat morning stopped by lab awhile after test. Went by house to let in the men with the refrigerator and I started the painting. It goes fast with the roller. Ruth shopped downtown and came back by and then we went to G.E.M. and picked out the washer.We celebrated Ruth’s birthday by eating out and then listened to the KU-Missouri game and were tired as you could imagine. Hope you’re all OK and tell Aunt Clara to have a nice rest in Texas. We’ll be anxious for you to see the house after we’re fixed up.Maybe Dr. Peters will raise my salary this summer. Our utility bills are beyond that. Maybe next yr Ruth can substitute or something. I’m sure we can live on the salary Dr. Peters promised me for next yr. The floors are fair and need some cleaning. Everything was left very dirty. Elisabeth helped Ruth clean kitchen. We may use remnants in the living room. Our guinea pigs are better. We’re feeding them greens for Vitamin C.We figure the furniture and things from Aunt Martha and you. You’re right – about 10 mins to drive to med center North and West of here. The gift from Henry was a set of copper measuring spoons. Our refrig is electric Hotpoint – big freezer – self defrost - on rollers.

</letter>
<letter date="1-29-58" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

I’m finally getting to this letter after a delay of about 3 days. I’m writing this in our new bed. It is walnut finish and bookcase style. 
<v-row><letter-image :sources="['9f543bab329ee328cc33343425405e1f_html_6ede0aee.jpg']" >A picture of the bookcase style walnut finish bed a few months later, with Lesle in it.

</letter-image></v-row>
The dresser has 3 drawers on each side and has a big mirror which tips – so I can see myself. Ruth and her Mother are in the living room looking at some catalogs. Mrs. Laidig arrived about 4:00 PM. She brought Dallas back to Lawrence since he had been home between semesters. They left about 6:30 in the morning. She just called Dad to tell him that she had arrived OK. Ruth called her last night to see for sure if she was coming. She’ll stay at least till Sun and will help finish painting and cleaning up. She’ll sleep on the sofia (Its color is called beige with a touch of Turquoise with a gold stripe. It has legs.) tonight. Tomorrow a load of furniture is coming from Oberlin. She sent a day couch (flat), Ruths chest and her old-fashioned organ. The organ may go here in the bedroom and the couch will go in the other bedroom (nursery). Mrs. Laidig will sleep on the couch and, of course, you could sleep on it when you come.In the morning we have to be at the apartment by 9:00 AM as the men are coming to move the piano and chest. Chest will go in the dining room with the dinette set (Modern – brown – metal etc.) Ruth and her Mother will clean up at the apartment tomorrow or Fri. The things that are left can be easily carried in one carful. We, of course, have to be out by the first. We’ve been sleeping up here since last Fri night after the furniture came. We may go to choir practice tomorrow night if the weather is good. We missed last week on account of the weather. Sat I’ll help the medical student who is working in our lab on one of our problems.Tonight I went from work (6:00) over to the apartment and waited for Ruth and her Mother to come by. Ruth brought my good shoes and a white shirt and we all went to the annual church dinner at which the summary of the work for 1957 was presented. That lasted till about 9:00 and we then stopped by the store on the way home. Last night we worked till about 10:00 moving a big load of clothes and things. Mon night we shopped in downtown K.C., Kans for some small things we needed. Ruth has worked hard (but not too hard – I do all lifting etc.) cleaning kitchen, bath and floors. Everything was filthy and we can’t imagine how the people before us could live in such a mess. Her Mother will relieve the burden now for a few days. We caught 2 mice the other night and have another. The roaches etc. are better. The bathroom lavatory is stopped up so Ruth will call Mrs. Hansen about it.The bedroom will be painted a light bluish gray. I haven’t started it yet. The living room is a light aqua green. We used a roller for the paint and trimmed the edge with a brush. The living room is almost done but may have to go around the edges again since one coat on the edge doesn’t match the 2 coats on the main part. The dining room is a darker green and has 1 coat on. The stove is gas a Tappan. The General Electric washer came last Sat but was too large for the basement door. Ruth and her Mother will go back to G.E.M. on Sat and decide on a smaller one that will go thru the door. I hated to ask the Hansens to allow me to knock off the boards around the door so we could get the G.E. through. Mrs. Laidig brought us her old vacuum cleaner and a floor lamp.Last Sun morning was coffee time for our class and I led the singing. Our class has been averaging about 40 in attendance. We took Jim Gleason’s wife home after church since she didn’t want to get the car out. Jim is out in Western Kansas on his preceptorship. Ken goes before too long. Medical Microbiology will be over after 2 more sessions. We ate at the cafeteria Sun and then rested some as both were tired. Ate supper at the apartment and packed and loaded the car with a big load. Sat morning I bought a snow shovel and in the afternoon shoveled our walk here so the washer could get in. Painted in the afternoon. We waited 3 days for the phone to get put in. From Sat noon to yesterday afternoon you couldn’t have called us if you had wanted too. They failed to show on 2 days they had promised.Sat night was the pharmacology dinner at Dr. Greens. Real fancy and, of course, they all had there drinks. Ruth got to meet Dr. Peters and all the professors. Our car was snowed in, in front of the house, at the start of the storm a week ago last Tues. That Mon we had planned to go to apartment (I think I wrote that night) but instead I loaded car. It snowed all day Tues and we stayed in that night. Wed night I shoveled car out in front of apartment. Had to stop by building that evening on our way to house and got stuck on ice near med center power plant. Car stayed there till Fri when Dr. Walaszek and Bill Sledge from Osawatomee helped push me out. Since the car was stuck Ruth had to come here by cab for the arrival of the furniture on Fri. Thurs night we had stayed home as I worked on journal articles for seminar on Fri (went OK). Dr. Walaszek said I should speak up more in seminars – I guess I’ve always been the quiet type ha! As I said before we then started sleeping here on last Fri night. Car got stuck a little Sat but dug out with shovel. On Sun got stuck a little by church and again tonight but pushed out OK. Although our street still has snow I get in and out OK as we have a slight incline in front. Tonight it rained - I hope it doesn’t snow again. I’ve had enough for a while! See next sheet. <footnote>Dad includes a drawing of the floor plan of the house.</footnote> 
<v-row><letter-image :sources="['9f543bab329ee328cc33343425405e1f_html_d36acdcc.jpg', '9f543bab329ee328cc33343425405e1f_html_e642f500.jpg']" >827 Shawnee Road - We looked for this house in April 2019, but only found an empty lot.

</letter-image></v-row>

</letter>
<letter date="No Date – 12:00 Noon Friday" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

I meant to write this last night but we were so tired that we went to bed early. We both have colds although mine feels better today. I’m writing this at my desk in the lab. Rheta will bring back my lunch since I’m running an experiment that I can’t leave very well. I will probably stay most noons although I may go home occasionally.Everything is rounding into shape at the house. Tonight I may finish painting the bricks (ivory enamel) for the bookcase. Ruth started the painting on them the other day. Mrs. Laidig left Tues morning and was a tremendous help as she did a lot of the heavy cleaning and waxing that had to be done. I didn’t have time for all of it and it would have been too much for Ruth. The painting all looks very nice except that the edges in the living room don’t quite match. I used up the 1<sup>st</sup> gallon on the walls (used a roller on all painting except the edges with a brush) and when we got some more to finish out it was slightly lighter. The curtains overlap some of it and it’s not too noticeable unless you look for it.We bought a rug 12’ x 15’ beige sandalwood ? for the living room but can’t put it down until the pad comes sometime next week. If it doesn’t come Mon we’ll go ahead and put the rug down as the circle meeting is next Wed night. We would probably never have made it without Ruth’s Mother. We traded the washer that was too wide in for a narrower model that just barely went into the basement. The snow is almost all melted except for a few icy spots here and there. It remains fairly cold most of the time.Last night we went to choir practice and then got gas and to a drugstore for some cough syrup. Tues night I studied for a microbiology test on Wed morning. I guess I made an A the 1<sup>st</sup> quarter in there but may not do that well this quarter. That exam was the last hour exam in there but there will be questions on the final the 1<sup>st</sup> wk in March that I’ll have to answer. Mon night I stayed home and listened to K State beat KU in basketball. I painted the bookcase boards while I listened and Ruth and her Mother went shopping. Wed night we bought some frozen food for the refrigerator has a large freezer. We have to use frozen things a lot as the Dr. told Ruth to cut down on her salt for the last few wks. Last Sun we all ate at the cafeteria and then I studied in the afternoon. (Hanson’s had a plumber out to fix our lavatory which didn’t drain very well.) Sun evening Ruth and I went to the 1<sup>st</sup> family night meeting at the church. Had sandwiches etc. and then two missionaries from Japan talked. Last Sat morning we had the 1<sup>st</sup> of 11 sessions, here in our library, on general pharmacology. I may have told you about them. They were set up mainly to help Bob since he did not pass his prelims. He will take them over after the end of the sessions. Worked at home the rest of last Sat. Now 6:30 and Ruth here since she had car. We’ll eat in cafeteria I guess.

</letter>
<letter date="2-13-58" variation="standard" :has-footnote="true">
<template #footnote>

Mom to Grandmother

</template>
Dear Mother, I’ll start this and let Carroll finish it. He didn’t think he could describe circle meeting for you, so I’ll do that (I know you’d rather hear from him is the reason he can finish). Yes, we serve at Circles. For a long time I couldn’t decide what we should have, but after Mom brought me her salad forks, I decided to serve angel food muffins with a cherry sauce. I used the crystal serving trays with matching cups and put a red heart doily on each one. I used valentine napkins and then had chocolate covered mints and red and white candy in a milk glass dish. The house looked real nice (at least we thought so) and it’s a relief to have the hard part of it done. It’s almost 6 and I’d better get busy on supper if we’re going to get to choir on time.Saturday night – Carroll isn’t going to have a chance to finish this, so I will. We got your Valentine yesterday and were glad to get all the news. We can’t decide when our last letter to you was written, so there may be a time lapse somewhere. We’ve spent most of our evenings here at home, but we’ve certainly had to do a lot of running around during the day. Last Saturday Carroll had his usual class in the morning and I worked around here at home. In the afternoon Ken and Elizabeth came up to see what progress we’d made. Then we went out to G.E.M. to get another length of living room curtain material (I had changed my mind about how I wanted to make them, so decided another length would add some necessary fullness). We got a bathroom towel rod and a little towel and washcloth set for the baby. Then we hurried to K.C., Ks to do some more shopping. We got a red with white insulated bag for diapers, bottles, etc. and some little shirts. Then we worked here at home till quite late.Sunday morning we were actually a few minutes early for s.s. Four babies were baptized in church – only one boy. We ate at home, did some work and relaxed until time to go to the family night mission study at church. We did very little after that. Monday was dr. day again, so I went down with Carroll and just read in the library till time to go for my appointment. Dr. gave me a prescription for an anti-spasmodic as I’d been nauseated again. We were going to eat lunch together, but the Upjohn man was there taking the members of the department out for lunch, so Carroll thought he’d better go too. We went to K.C. Ks that night and got a curtain rod for the nursery, some blinds for the dining room and a little maple step table.
<v-row><letter-image :sources="['9f543bab329ee328cc33343425405e1f_html_db85a51a.jpg']" >The little maple step table a few years later. I have many memories of playing on this table.

</letter-image></v-row>
We looked for a lamp shade to put on the bedroom lamp, but couldn’t find the right kind. Tuesday I went to the Plaza and found a lampshade and an unfinished bookcase for the music. I put the undercoat on as soon as I got home and Carroll finished it that night. It works real well and helps make us have almost an entry hall. We put the dining room curtains up that night and Carroll finished the heavy work.Wed was full and I was so glad Carroll came home early. He finished the living room and beat the egg whites for the cake and then he did supper dishes while I got dressed. He spent the evening studying in the nursery and no one even started to open that door (they all thought it was a closet that I’d stuffed things into). After everyone left (between 10 and 10:30) he rinsed most of the dishes and made me go to bed. <footnote>Grandmother made ink marks in the margins on either side of the following sentence.</footnote>  I’ve decided he’s a pretty good husband!Thursday was Carroll’s busiest day as far as classes – he had two. I just wrote letters and did as little as possible. We picked up Dr. Park and she and I drove around a little bit while Carroll went up to lab – then he remembered his key to the lab was with his car keys – in the car! So we went on to choir and stopped at the lab afterward. We stopped at a drug store to get some valentines, then drove over to the K.C., Mo post office. By then I was hungry, so we stopped at the r.r. station and got some fruit.Yesterday Carroll had difficulty getting to work since a light snow made the hill just like glass. Luckily he made it without an accident. Then in the afternoon I fell quite hard, so we decided it really wasn’t our day. We were afraid we might have a birthday party right away after that fall, but it looks as though we escaped that.We had a valentine supper by candlelight, using our china, crystal and silver. <footnote>So sweet. </footnote> The menu was meatloaf, frozen corn, frozen beans with cheese, strawberry-applesauce salad, milk and peaches over angel food cake. Carroll thought the meatloaf was real good and I did too – a surprising thing since it had no salt at all in it. I used marjoram and a bay leaf and put cheese through the middle. I’m using all my ingenuity to make things taste good without using salt. Last night the insurance man was here and we took a floater policy covering all household goods, clothes, books, etc.This morning Carroll had his class and then talked with Dr. Walaszek, so didn’t get home till after one. Ken and Elizabeth came over for a little while (they’re leaving for Wilson for Ken’s preceptorship) and then we went to K.C. Ks. Carroll had his picture taken (a free one – an advertising come on) and we picked up the diaper pail we had ordered at Montgomery Ward’s. We got terry cloth for baby gifts and material for a dress I can wear until I can fit into my normal clothes. And we got some screens to put over the incinerator.Tonight Carroll put the pad down and it turned out to be quite a job. Since he wouldn’t let me help any with that, I washed the baby clothes so they’ll be all ready. It’s such a strange feeling to walk into the basement and see nothing but baby things. I think we have just about everything we need now.Carroll said to be sure to tell you where the piano is – it’s against the west wall of the living room since it’s the only good inside wall. Carroll suggested that if you want to see the house while we’re still just two, you’d better come right away – maybe next weekend. Of course that’s up to you, but you know you’re welcome. It’s after 10 and I’m all “writ out,” so will stop for now and Carroll really will write next week. <footnote>Dad adds: </footnote> I don’t think I’ll be able to exchange the car chains. (If I never answered that question.) We cannot use the Blue Cross and Blue Shield. I was going thru old letters etc and wasn’t sure I had answered the above questions.

</letter>
<letter date="No date – Sat 11:40 PM" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

I’m writing this in bed. Ruth rested this evening till about 10:30 and we then did the dishes, I washed my hair etc. I listened to the K-State game earlier this evening and did some calculating on some lab work. We were glad to receive your card today. I hope M.J. and Bill make it OK as soon as the roads are in better shape. The weather has been colder here the last few days but not as bad as the bitter cold we had for so long. The house heats fine but I suppose we’ll have a huge gas bill.Ruth has been fine and takes naps in the afternoon. She’s been catching up on odd jobs and reading. Last Wed the Dr. said he didn’t think it would be this weekend, so I guess it’ll be a few days yet, probably next Fri when I have 2<sup>nd</sup> quarter finals, ha! I’ve been reviewing some but have quite a bit yet to do this week. We’ll probably miss choir practice this Thurs. We’ve missed only a very few times since we’ve been here.The 3<sup>rd</sup> quarter starts Mar 10<sup>th</sup>. Our lab schedule will have to be cut some since there is a pharmacology lab each Tues and Thurs afternoon till the end of the yr. I’ll help assist in the lab and probably work at one of the tables with the other graduate students enrolled. The other students are (2) majors in Microbiology who are minoring in pharmacology.This morning we had our last class with Bob. He passed his minor exam in anatomy and takes his prelim in pharm again on Mar 11. Assuming he passes this time he’ll graduate in Oct. This afternoon we went to store $13 for groceries. We’re well stocked up for after the “party” etc. We then drove to the plaza and got some salt free bread for Ruth and went to Sears and got some locks to put on some of our windows which won’t lock. We got gas on the way home and then I studied awhile.Yesterday evening we went to the English movie “Brothers in Law.” It was a comedy about 2 young barristers. We hadn’t been to a movie since last Oct when Ruth’s mother was here and the only other thing since was that play in Nov, so I guess we save money on entertainment. Ruth wanted to get out while she could.Thurs evening we went to choir practice. Last Mon we went to the store awhile and Tues I had to go to a lecture. Ruth visited a friend who lives by the med center. Stayed home Wed evening. Last Sun evening we went to the last meeting on Japan. It was a movie. Tomorrow I must get a lot of studying done. Will close and get to sleep so can get up for s.s. and church. Hope you’re OK and write Aunt Clara hello and tell M.J. and Bill same when they arrive. Don’t shovel any snow.

</letter>
<letter date="3-2-58" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

I just finished listening to KU get beat by Nebraska in basketball. That loss eliminates any chance for the title. K State is winning this year. Ruth is here also, finishing a magazine story. I’ll go down in a little bit and hang up a load of clothes which she started a while ago. This evening Ruth finished making bath towels and blankets for Roger Gary Corman, born Feb 12<sup>th</sup>. It was calculated to be due Mar 2<sup>nd</sup> so was quite early. I guess that’s common with first babies. Ruth’s date is Mar 12<sup>th</sup> but as I may have mentioned the Dr. says it’ll be a week or so early. You can, therefore, expect a call most any time, although I think it’ll be a few days yet. Ruth says she is ready anytime.We had the class with Bob again this morning. He’ll try his exams again around Mar 1<sup>st</sup>. I still haven’t got on the German since the moving and fixing up took so much time. 2<sup>nd</sup> quarter final exams are wk after next so I won’t be able to start till after that. I have a lot of reviewing to do with the possibility of being interrupted by a trip to the hospital. It has been real warm here the last 2 days in comparison to the 2 wks of sub-freezing weather. Tomorrow is expected to be warm again with a high near 60.This afternoon we drove by Ken and Elisabeths. They were packing the car in preparation for driving to Wilson, Kans. tomorrow. For the next 6 wks Ken will have his preceptorship there with some Dr. We picked up some of Elisabeths low salt diets since Ruth is supposed to be on a low salt diet. Her weight gain was slightly in excess of normal but has otherwise been fine. We drove to the Plaza and tried to buy some salt-free bread at Wolfermanns, one of the fancy food stores, but they were out. We bought Ruth a pair of soft wool houseslippers, picked up some baby gift cards for the gift to Roger Corman. Ruth also made gifts for Thomas Lindley Laidig (John’s son in New Jersey) and Laurie Sherman (son of Ruth’s best girlfriend in high school). The gifts are all ready to go and everything else is in order and caught up so I guess we’re ready for Jr. anytime. I painted the wicker chest last Sun night. It took so much paint that I didn’t have enough left for a 2<sup>nd</sup> coat. I may do that later. The baby things are all packed, cleaned etc. and we have just about everything we need for a start.Last evening the insurance man came by to change the beneficiary on Ruth’s policy. We shopped at Safeway in the evening and saw Dr. Walaszek, his wife and cute little boy. I studied awhile for the class this morning. Last Thurs I had the full hr seminar in microbiology. I gave the same one I had given in pharmacology. I just didn’t have time to prepare a fresh topic. Tues I had 30 mins of journal reports in the micro one. I won’t have to enroll in that one (micro. b. seminar) for the last. Last Thurs night we went to choir practice. We stayed home M-W nights and I caught up on some reading. Last Sun I sang in choir and Ruth stayed in and read. We ate at union and rested in the afternoon. We went to the mission study again.I got rid of that cold but have had touch of laryngitis the last 2 days – better today. Hope you keep well and maybe you should cut down on salt too – ha! Sorry you can’t come now but maybe it will be better all around because of Ruth. Remember, you’re welcome here at any time. Our furnace heats well but imagine we’ll have a big gas bill since not all of the windows have storm windows. It is a regular basement furnace like yours with vertical openings at baseboard level and cold air opening. One opening in each room, of course.Why is Bob Bell in Hutch and what is he with or doing? In the service? We went by the hospital this afternoon and saw the delivery rooms, other rooms, etc. Makes it easier on one when you go. I’ll write Murray soon. Can’t promise anything now to him. Thanks for the future gift of a bath tub. We’ll wait awhile and see what we need. A couple at the church offered to loan us their bathinette.

</letter>
<letter date="3-6-58 - Lesle is born!" variation="note" :has-footnote="false">

She was born at 1:29 AM, weighed 7 lbs 4.5 oz, and was 19” long.

</letter>
<letter date="3-9-58" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

I’m writing this in bed as its about that time. Lesle is asleep in the living room in our basket. We all think she is certainly nice. She’ll probably feed again about 11:30 or 12:00. I brought the rocking chair into the bedroom so Ruth can feed her in here. Yesterday morning I slept a little later and then took some things to Ruth at the hospital. Afterwards, I went to the lab and worked till visiting hour at 2:00 when I went back to her room. I ate some lunch in the cafeteria and then worked in the lab (calculating – not an exper.) till about 5:00 (Just took time out to wheel Lesle in). It was drizzling when I came home as it had been for 2 or 3 days. I rested awhile and when I looked outside again it was snowing. Mrs. Laidig called about that time from downtown Kans. City, Kans. She had come with someone from Oberlin since Mr. Laidig thought the roads might be bad. She said she could have made it through by herself however. Mr. Laidig will come down in a couple of weeks and take her home. Mr. Laidig is bringing a folding baby bed that Larry used, so that will be taken care of. You may not approve but I used your money, for now, to start paying on the hospital bill. It came to a total of $61 but may be slightly less if they knock off slightly for professional courtesy. Thanks a lot.Mrs. Laidig had to wait in the cold as she couldn’t get in the car they came in and the stores were all closed. She was waiting on the man to come back to the car as he had some business and she had some shopping (She was looking for matching yarn to finish a carriage cover). She called me here before I went to the hospital from 7-8 and then left a message there for me to pick her up at the Kans. City, Kans. bus station. I went to get her and brought her back to the hospital to see Lesle. On the way home it was just slick enough that I couldn’t get up one place on the hill so we had to walk on. It wasn’t cold so not too bad walking.This morning the sun was shining and the streets were clear so I went and got the car and brought Mrs. Laidig’s other grip home (I carried one last night) and then took the going home things to Ruth and shopped for groceries. I had planned on going to s.s. and church but didn’t make it. I went by the drugstore about noon and got Ruth at 12:30. It was about 2:00 by the time I got Ruth and Lesle home. Mrs. Laidig did not go. I had lunch and then read and rested this afternoon.Ruth has a touch of diarrhea and is pretty tired so the Dr. told her to rest all she could the next 2 weeks. I went to the drugstore this evening for a thermometer, and bottle brush, etc. We all had some peppermint (Ruth’s favorite) ice cream a little bit ago. She is off her low salt and calorie diet. Pharmacology lab starts this week so I won’t be able to run as many expts as usual. Hope you’re all fine and tell M.J. and Bill hello. I’ll mail this and start another letter tomorrow with earlier details. Lesle now weighs less than 7 lbs and 5 oz so we think they miss weighed her at 1<sup>st</sup>. Probably just under 7 lbs.

</letter>
<letter date="3-12-58" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

We have been glad to have received your letters, clippings, etc. Received the United Funds. Hate to use that now but see no other way out. Have been thinking about a part time job on the weekend. I’ll wait awhile and see how the work at home works out. Ruth has come to bed early since she was tired and Lesle will have to be fed in a couple of hrs. Generally speaking she has been a good baby, although a few times at night she has kept Mrs. Laidig up for several hours. Her eye is all cleared up but she still uses some of the medicine. I guess she has has blueish eyes but I suppose they may change some. She has quite a bit of dark hair but that may change too, I understand.Ruth will rest up tomorrow so we can go to choir practice if she feels like it. She is up and around most of the time and gave Lesle a bath today for the first time. Fri night I’ll probably listen to the big K-State basketball game. I imagine Bill will be listening also. Mrs. Laidig has been invited out by Bob Legg (3<sup>rd</sup> cousin) and they may go to cinerama. <footnote>(Cinerama is “a widescreen process that originally projected images simultaneously from three synchronized 35 mm projectors onto a huge, deeply curved screen, subtending 146 degrees of arc.”)</footnote>  He may come here for dinner first.Mrs. Laidig had planned to go home this weekend when Mr. would drive up but now she will stay a week longer. Mr. L has a meeting this weekend and couldn’t make it easily. Ruth has wanted her father to be the officiating elder for Lesle’s baptism so he will come the next weekend (Palm Sun) and thus be able to help. The preacher prefers Palm Sun anyway as there will be some others. <b>Henceforth</b>, why don’t you plan to come that week-end and you can be back for Easter. There’ll be room for you to stay here at the house. M.J. and Bill and Aunt Clara are all, of course, welcome at any time.Today was warmer and clear after another bout of snow Sun night. I’ll be glad when spring arrives. We’ve had two nice letters from Rev Haworth about Lesle. The preacher here called one day last week. The women have been bothered each day by insurance salesmen, photographers, etc. Last night I studied for test today in pharmacology. I missed 4 out of 64 which with 4 papers to grade (96 medical students and 3 graduate students) was the best grade. The closest was 9 wrong.Mon night I studied and Mrs. L went shopping downtown (took the car). Ruth was in “Rooming in” at the hospital. 2 beds in each of 2 rooms with a small room in between for the 4 babies and then a place for the nurse. They only open these up when they have 3 or 4 as it takes a full time nurse. The rooms and everything in that part of the hospital are all new and very nice. The girl she was with was the one who had the baby earlier in the evening. Received nice gift for Lesle from Aunt Clara and note. Also from Uncle Clyde. We forgot his birthday. Had remembered it earlier. Tell all hello.

</letter>
<letter date="No Date – Thurs PM 10:30 -" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

I’m sitting on the edge of the bed and Ruth just lay down. Lesle is with her grandmother who is trying to quiet her down for some sleep. She just fed a little bit ago. She feeds every 3-4 hrs during the day and then slightly longer at night. Mrs. Laidig is now sleeping in the living room since its easier to get to the kitchen for water etc. Tonight was choir practice but I decided to stay a home. If Ruth feels OK Sun we may go to church. She feels stronger every day and doesn’t hurt as much etc.We have, of course, been home every night this week. I’ve been catching up on some reading and the women folks rest, read and take care of Lesle. She was wide awake a little bit ago and was real pretty. Mrs. Laidig was tired tonight so I did the dishes. I did them night before last also. I’ll have to go to the grocery store tomorrow. Mrs. L has walked to the little store and picked up some things.Lesle is almost 8 days old. A week ago yesterday I went to lab awhile and then came home early for lunch as I wanted to get back for an experiment. Ruth went back too as she had her appointment with the Dr. Afterwards she came back to the lab and said the Dr. was putting her to bed as he thought the baby would arrive within 24 hours. She went to the hospital and checked in at 3:10. I worked awhile and went over about 5:00. I expected to find her in a regular room but she was in the labor room already. I talked to her awhile in the hall as the pains hadn’t started yet. I then came home, had some supper and got her bag. I took it back to the hospital and didn’t get to see Ruth till afterwards.They have a nice waiting room there for the fathers. There was another fellow there waiting also. Their baby arrived about 8:30. I checked about 7:30 and they said Ruth was in early labor. I was quite nervous but managed to study some awhile waiting. I checked at 10 and they said she was coming along quicker so I didn’t check any more (so I’d be calmer) as I knew they would bring the baby out soon afterwards. They brought it <footnote>(it?) </footnote> out about 2:30 and I got to see Ruth about 3:15 as they took her to her room. I quite studying about 12 and dozed a wee bit (?) as I waited. Ruth didn’t sleep much that night so said she read a bit. The Dr keep her on low salt for a couple of days as her blood pressure was up a bit. I sleep about 3 hrs. (4-7) and then called Hutch, Oberlin etc.Went to hospital Thurs morning and studied a bit. Ate at home and studied awhile and back to lab to tell the news and then to see Ruth. Studied a home most of evening and then final on Fri morning (21 questions on microbiology which is now over at last). Only course work left is in pharmacology. Must stop. Hope all are well and tell all hello.

</letter>
<letter date="No Date – 11:00 PM" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

I’ve just come from the kitchen where Ruth and her Mother were “playing” with Lesle. We went to Lawrence today and were surprised to run into Mrs. L at Dallas’s hall. This morning was coffee for our class, so we all went early. Lesle stayed in the rock-a-bye room during s.s. We sat near the back and it wasn’t long before Ruth could here Lesle crying in the room (rock-a-bye) across the hall. Ruth had to feed her some then and then she took her up to church where they sat on the back. I sang in the choir, as usual, while Ruth and Lesle got to hear most of the service except for one period when she seemed ready to cry and Ruth took her out. Everyone comments on how sweet and pretty Lesle is ha! They should see her when she’s crying.We ate dinner at home, Ruth fed Lesle, and we then drove to Lawrence. The day was nice and not too hot. We arrived in Lawrence about 3:30 and went to Sellards where I took Lesle and the basket inside. Ruth got to visit with some of the girls and I went to Malott Hall. It so happened that 3 of Dr. Wenzel’s present students were there so I had quite a visit. They all plan to graduate this June and then work towards PHD’s although none are going on in our department. I called up Dr. Wenzel and quite a visit with him. He said that one of my research problems will be published in the April issue of the Journal of the American Pharmaceutical Association and that he was in the process of writing up the other one.When I got back to Sellards Ruth came in from Pearson (where Dallas lives) and said she had run into her Mother. She was on the way here and had stopped to see Dallas. If she had missed us she would have had to climb in the window so it was lucky we met. We went to Westminster where Dr. Patton and Alan Pickering (Assistant student pastor) got to see Lesle, and then others that we knew. We then went to Danforth Chapel for the installation of officers service. Roger Gary Corman was baptized and that was the main reason Ruth wanted to go over today. Mrs. L and Dallas went also. Afterwards I picked up my German books at the library while Ruth and her Mother went by the Corman’s apartment. I stopped by later and we started back about 9:30, arriving here about 10:30.Sat morning I worked awhile and in the afternoon we went to Sears and purchased a lawnmower and some hose. I got the yard mowed, picked up pine cones, and Ruth went to the store in the evening. Fri night we had Dr. Walaszek to dinner as his wife was still in Chicago. She stopped there when he went to the meetings. He stayed till 10 and during the evening Ruth went to a decorating committee meeting. Lesle was real good and stayed down the entire time.Tomorrow Dr. Walaszek and I go to Osawatomie to talk with Dr. Minz about our research for the next 3 months. Last Thurs night we all went to choir practice. Ruth held Lesle for all the rehersal except for one little bit when she had to take her out. We have rehersal next Tues and then the concert on Thurs night. Hope you’re all OK and tell Aunt Clara hello.

</letter>
<letter date="3-16-58" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

Would you please send the United Funds Certificate to me. I thought I had it here but guess I don’t. I think I’ll cash it in rather than to use more of the Valley Federal. It seems like all the insurance and everything came due at once. I’m just ready to take Ruth for a ride. She hasn’t been outside the house since last Sun when she came home. Lesle’s eye was draining a bit this morning so I had to bring home some medicine that the Dr. gave us.

</letter>
<letter date="3-26-58" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

I’m writing this at the lab and in pencil since I forgot my pen today. I just finished an experiment which didn’t go as well as I’d have liked for it to. We measure the amount of contraction of a small <footnote>(Dad draws a picture) </footnote> piece of guinea pig intestine and some days it runs better than others. We’re about to finish up the series of rabbits that have been injected with the schizophrenic serum out at Osawatomie. Although the work I’ve done so far will probably go in my thesis eventually, the main research problem is yet to be decided upon. These first problems with the rabbits were quite straightforward and I gained a lot of experience from having run them.During April and May I’ll run several small pilot experiments and then use the one that looks most promising for my major problem. This will have to be a problem that is not clear-cut, thus requiring a lot of trial and error work. Helping for and in the medical student lab on Tues and Thurs takes quite a bit of time during this last quarter.As I may have mentioned I am not going to the meeting in Philadelphia. Dr. Walaszek never said one way or the other so I assumed that I wouldn’t be going some time ago. The major purpose of going is to meet the people – all the reports are published in the journals. Our work has not been significant enough and then with Lesle it would be difficult for Ruth. The meetings are in 3 wks.We were glad to have your letter yesterday. We’re sorry you can’t come this weekend but will look forward to seeing you whenever you can make it. We received some of those birds from Aunt Faye and Uncle John like they sent Jimmy. We have several gifts and quite a few cards which you can see when you.The last couple of days have been warmer and clear. Mrs. L said she was going to ride the bus downtown and look around. If its nice tomorrow they may all 3 go out awhile. Mr. L will drive part way Fri and come on in Sat morning.I hope Lesle doesn’t cry Sun morning. She has had several long crying spells but I’m not sure whether it was real colic or just couldn’t burp etc. Her eye is all cleared up. She sometimes will follow a moving object with her eyes. Easter vacation is fine with us, when are the dates. Lesle has probably gained back the wt as she appears filled out some. We don’t have a scales. She goes to the Dr in 3 wks. Dr. Blim, the pediatrician is the son of our choir director.We both made it to s.s. and church last Sun. Ruth sang in the choir. We have been home Mon and Tues nights. Tonight we’ll go to store.Would you please call Coberly Drug Co. and tell them to send me my withholding and salary statement for income tax. I wrote a card but have never heard. Tell Aunt Clara hello. Glad to hear about M.J. &amp; Bill’s house. Don’t overdo and we’ll see you soon. Listened to the basketball games last weekend and was disappointed to hear K-State lose as I imagine M.J. &amp; Bill were to. Love Ruth, Lesle &amp; Carroll <footnote>(first time he adds Lesle’s name)</footnote>

</letter>
<letter date="4-10-58" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

I’m sitting at the dining room table but may be interrupted at any time. The reason for this is that I’m baby sitting for the first time. Ruth has gone to the circle meeting which is being held at the Moyes (pastor). She left early so she could go by the drugstore and pick up the film which I left yesterday. I hope we have at least a few pictures.
<v-row><letter-image :sources="['9f543bab329ee328cc33343425405e1f_html_7bd5f7c2.jpg']" >Daddy, and Lesle Ann Smith at 5 weeks

</letter-image></v-row>
I just had a long distance call from Mrs. Laidig about our income tax. If I claim Ruth as an exemption it makes a difference of about $120. If Mr. L claims her it saves him about $200,<b> henceforth</b>, I’m sending Ruth’s withholding statement to him so he can claim her. I guess he’ll send me what I would have saved and then he’ll keep the difference. I told Mr L. and now I’ll tell you that Ruth and Lesle have had colds since Sun. Today, however, they are both much better. Ruth’s nose is not running so much today and Lesle doesn’t wheeze as much as she did for a day or so. I haven’t had it yet but my throat has been a little irritated.We had a letter from Mrs. L today saying that Delbert Musgrave’s operation was successful and the growth was not malignant. He is leaving soon for St. Louis where he will attend a technical school. (Lesle is making noises so I’ll probably have to feed her shortly.) She has been eating more since you left and Ruth has been using the bottle more to supplement. She ate about every 2 hours today but went for 6½ hours last night. I don’t mind being awakened at night occasionally, and I really think I sleep a little sounder because of it.We were both glad you could be here over the weekend and you know you’re welcome at any time. Driving back from the station Sun I found the right road to take so next time we won’t have any trouble. We, of course, have been home the evenings since you were gone. I don’t get quite as much studying done as Lesle takes up both our time. I’ve been doing all the dishes in the evening, except for last night, when we both did them. My next exam is a week from tomorrow, so I’ll have to sneak in studying whenever I can. Tomorrow night I’ll probably go to choir practice.We may buy a baby bottle sterilizer since she’s using the bottle more. It’ll probably run $8-10. Mrs. L had spent quite a bit on groceries while she was here, so we wrote asking her to tell us the amount so we could pay it back. She said to let it go as a gift for Lesle Ann. I can’t get to the bank with your check till next Fri. Thanks again for everything. I hope you had a nice stay in Newton and that the folks are getting settled. Tell Aunt Clara and Uncle Clyde hello and we’ll write soon. Hope you weren’t too tired from your trip and get all the rest you can.

</letter>
<letter date="4-12-58" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

We’re in the living room and Lesle is crying. She just ate a little bit ago and as she is quite often, it takes her awhile to quiet down and go to sleep. Dr. Blim said to give her some paregoric <footnote>(camphorated tincture of opium)</footnote>  when she won’t quiet down so we have done that a couple of times, especially at night. The weather has been fine the last few days and is such a relief after the last few days. If the weather is nice this Sat I may get out and finish the raking of leaves which Mrs. L started. Mr. L brought down a rake and hoe so we won’t have to buy any. I will have to buy a hose, however. The car needs a washing as it hasn’t had one since that time in Oberlin last August.This Thurs evening I have to go to church to sing in the choir for the Maundy Thurs ? service. Fri morning I’ll go to work and then leave early about 11:15 and eat my lunch. Afterwards I’ll come home and get Ruth and Lesle and then we’ll come meet you at the station. Ruth and Lesle can stay in the car and I’ll meet you at the usual place inside. Since I have a 1:00 PM class we can drive back to the med. center where I’ll get out and Ruth can drive you on out here. We are not having seminar Fri so I shouldn’t be too late from work. Don’t worry if the train should be late as I can go in class a few minutes late if necessary. Yesterday morning Ken and Elisabeth came by to see Lesle. She was good for them. They, of course, had not seen her as Ken had been out to Wilson, Kans. on his preceptorship. Last Sat I worked all day at lab. Mr. L arrived in the morning so they were together all day. Mr. and Mrs. L shopped downtown awhile in the afternoon and were here when I arrived. We had a good supper and spent the evening at home.Sun morning Mr. L and I went to the coffee preceeding our s.s. We slipped out early and met with the preacher and the other 3 couples who had children and babies. One of them was a sophomore medical student that I knew. The women didn’t arrive in time for the meeting since Lesle had been a little fussy. She was dressed in a pretty white outfit which we bought with your money ($5). (We have bought a $25 bond for Lesle with Aunt Clara’s money.) She cried during most of the procedurebut I guess it wasn’t too bad. I, of course, held her etc. Mr. L acted as the officiating elder for all of the baptisms. I slipped in the choir afterwards and Ruth kept Lesle in the parlor. Mr. and Mrs. L stayed in the service. After church we drove to a drive-in and had lunch. It was a nice warm day. Mr. and Mrs. L left about 2:00 and we spent the rest of the day as usual.Received your letter today and glad to hear about everything. We hope Aunt Clara and M.J. and Bill will also be able to see Lesle before too long. Mrs. L was a great help and we’ll miss her but I’m sure we’ll make it OK. We have 2 services Sun. Maybe you can go to s.s. and the 1<sup>st</sup> service with us and then you can keep Lesle while Ruth goes to the 2<sup>nd</sup> one.

</letter>
<letter date="4-15-58" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

I’m now at the Rosedale substation post-office. I just came from the bank after having left Ruth and Lesle at Dr. Blim’s office – the pediatrician. This is the baby’s first visit and I guess she she gets a shot. They both got over their colds OK. Lesle refused the bottle some for a few days but takes it most of the time now. I’ll drive back and get them now and then to building at 3:00 for lecture. Glad to have letter and clippings yesterday. I’m staying home tomorrow to study for exam Thurs.

</letter>
<letter date="No Date – Fri 5:30 PM" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

I meant to write more but didn’t get to it. I’ll write this week-end. We’re all fine. Lesle had her first shot and cried some but it didn’t seem to bother her anymore in the evening. It is sultry and rainy here this afternoon. I baby-sat Wed and Thurs evenings. Ruth went to a meeting of the decorating committee for the mother-daughter banquet Wed night, and last night she went to choir practice. Tonight we may all go to a drive-in movie and tomorrow Mary and Gary Corman and their baby boy will be over. Did OK on test. Missed 6 out of 64. Everyone will be back next wk.

</letter>
<letter date="No date – Sunday 7:30 PM" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

I just finished some supper while Ruth was feeding Lesle. She’s been eating fruit since last Tues and in another week she’ll start on yellow vegetables. She loves the fruit and also cereal, it it’s been sweetened. She doesn’t like the bottle and the only way to get her to take it is to give her something she likes first and then quickly switch to the bottle. Even then she catches on and won’t take very much. She weighed 8 lbs and 2 oz last Tues at the Dr’s and was 21½ inches long (2 inches longer than when born) and probably weighs 8½ lbs by now. If she feels like it next Sun we’ll take her to church and leave her in the nursery so Ruth can go to s.s.This morning I went to s.s. and church as usual. Had good group at s.s. Our class sponsors the annual mother daughter banquet (I mentioned that earlier I believe) which will be held on May 7<sup>th</sup> this year. Ruth will have another decorations committee meeting this Wed night. Thurs night we may both try to go to choir and leave Lesle in a room outside where I can go out and check on her occasionally. We have an extra rehersal a wk from Tues for the secular concert on May 1<sup>st</sup>. That is the annual concert given by the choir where they present negro spirituals and secular numbers. It is without charge but an offering for s.s. furniture will be taken. We’ll have a special mens chorus also. We stayed at home this afternoon and rested. I did some reading and listened to the baseball game awhile. About 5:30 we all went to the store and bought most of the groceries for the week - $12.00 worth. I’m rocking Lesle now. The basket etc. sure comes in handy at those times when all that it takes to put her to sleep is a little movement. She’s actually awake about 1/3 to ½ of each day. She has smiled, what we think are genuine smiles, a time or two. She’s always had good control of her head for her age and has rolled onto her side from lying on her stomach. When she’s in a good mood she will follow the birds and kicks her legs etc.Yesterday morning we got up about 10:30 as we had arrived home from a drive-in movie at about 1:30 in the morning. We worked from 10:30 till about 2:15 getting the house ready for the Cormans. They drove up about 2:15 and left around 9:00 PM. We all had good visits and enjoyed seeing each other’s babies. Their boy, Roger Gary, weighs 15½ lbs (2½ months old) and really is big and fat compared to Lesle. He’s no more active and alert than Lesle which may be due partly to his size and weight. Ruth had a very good dinner of meatloaf, potatoes, peas, salad (carrot-pineapple), rolls, and vanilla ice-cream with strawberries and cookies. It rained during the evening.Fri evening we cleaned things up early and all went to the drive-in movie. Lesle got along real well and only cried when she was hungry. That was the first entertainment we had been to since before Lesle was born. As I mentioned in the last letter I baby-sat on Wed and Thurs evenings. Dr. Walaszek should be back tomorrow and before long I should be getting off onto a different research problem. We’ll try to get to Lawrence some weekend before school is out and then in June try to get to Hutch some weekend so M.J., Bill and Aunt Clara can see Lesle. Tell all hello and don’t overdo.

</letter>
<letter date="5-?-58 – Fri 2:30 –" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

We were glad to receive your card at noon. Everyone is fine. The concert went OK last night at the church. We had a babysitter so Mrs. L could go. There was a good crowd and plenty of cookies and punch afterwards. Mrs. L left this morning and will go back thru Lawrence to take Dallas home for the weekend. He’s breaking off with his girl, I guess. Tonight the car insurance man will be out as our car ins runs out tomorrow. I’ll have a haircut tonight, also. I thought about you Mon night. We have less than 3 wks of actual classes left but several exams.

</letter>
<letter date="5-?-58 – 4:00 PM – Monday –" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

I’m starting before a class. Today is cool and we had a lot of rain over the weekend. Ruth said she might start mowing on the yard this afternoon if Lesle would go to sleep outside. I mowed it a week ago last Sat but with all the rain its really grown fast. I’ll help when I get home although I can’t work too much this week because of a pharmacology exam on Thurs morning. Thurs night we’ll miss choir rehersal as we’re having Joe and Elisa Hayers over for dinner. They are the ones who have loaned and given us several of the baby things etc.We will plan to come to Hutchinson this weekend for Mother’s Day. We do not have seminar this Fri so we’ll try to get away early. If we can leave early enough I won’t have to drive as much at night. Let us know as soon as possible if this is satisfactory. Let me know M.J.’s and Bill’s telephone and address in Newton. I have this somewhere but have misplaced it. We’ll call or stop there either on the way going or coming. Don’t look for us until we arrive on Friday evening. Yesterday morning we all went to church. Ruth had to leave s.s. to take care of Lesle as she had to on the Sun before. Ruth sang in choir and Lesle stayed in the Rock-a-bye Room. We ate at home afterwards and stayed home the rest of the day. I helped Ruth on her programs, which she is making for the Mother-daughter banquet this Wed night. I have to help serve as do the rest of the men in our Ninety-nine Class.Last Sat I worked awhile at the lab and then in the afternoon took the car out for an oil change etc. Afterwards we all went to downtown K.C., Kans where we bought a little dress for Lesle and some crib sheets. Ruth cut my hair Sat evening. I think I wrote on the card that the concert and everything went OK last week. Tell Aunt Clara hello and we’ll see you all this weekend.

</letter>
<letter date="5-?-58 – Wed –" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

Everything OK. Had a good trip back Sun. A lot of traffic all the way to Emporia but we took our time and were there about 7:15. Ate a sandwich and called Don Musgrave but he was out. Left there about 8:00 and got here at 10:00. The turnpike is so nice for night driving. I put the check on the loan. Thanks a lot. That leaves $40 on the loan and hospital bill. I’m outside standing up waiting for Ruth and Lesle to take me home. Ruth took Lesle to the Dr for shot this afternoon. Rained here this afternoon. Ruth has circle tonight. I moved the file in. Only a small scratch. We mowed yard yest.

</letter>
<letter date="No Date – Sun 9:00 PM -" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

I’m here alone for a while with Lesle. Ruth was a little weary so she’s out taking a little ride. Lesle has slept only a little today and has been very active. She weighed 9 lbs and 12 ozs at the Dr’s last Wed. He thought she hadn’t gained quite enough, although we thought she had, so he said for her to go on the bottle completely. She eats every 2-3 hrs during the day but still goes for longer periods at night, thank goodness. She still doesn’t like the bottle too well and I, especially, have trouble giving it to her.This morning we all went to s.s. and church. As usual Ruth had to leave s.s. before it was over but she got to stay longer than at either one of the last two times she was there. They complimented Ruth’s committee for decorations at the mother-daughter banquet. That banquet is the big yearly money raising project for our class.We invited Jim and Mickey Gleason over for dinner a week from tomorrow night.  He is the senior medical student in Ken’s class who I knew at Lawrence in Roger Williams. He also married a Presbyterian – she’s a K State graduate. I may have mentioned that Ken and Elisabeth stopped by one night last week (Tues) as I was mowing on the lawn. It’ll have to be done again this week and every week.Ruth and Lesle made it to church awhile this morning and then we stopped by the grocery a minute on the way home. We ate dinner about 2:30 because of Lesle. I listened to the radio and studied awhile this afternoon – also helped with Lesle quite a bit today. I have a pharmacology exam this coming Thurs morning and then the final integrated exam on the 28<sup>th</sup>. We may have a separate written exam for the graduate students also. The exams for the medical students are all of the objective type. After that, I definitely will get started on the German. We received $132 income tax refund so I won’t have to use any Valley Federal money till sometime this summer. Why don’t you plan to spend a few days here sometime in June or July. I think Ruth’s Mother will be here a few days the last of this month, at which time she will be attending a garden club show or something of that nature.Notice the enclosed article about our department, and my picture, in the monthly bulletin to all the hospital employees. Yesterday morning I went to lab awhile and got home about 12:30. Bought some medicine (Dr’s Rx) to help open Lesle’s nose and clear the mucous. If it doesn’t get better he may use some antibiotic. She has no fever or anything but is still whezzy. I helped inside the house till about 3:30 and then cleaned out the garage and burned most of the trash and leaves that were in there. I then took down the storm windows and put up the screens. I still have to rotate the car wheels, put up the mailbox and paint a cupboard for the dining room. That’s the one Mr. L made for us. Yesterday evening I got some studying done.Friday morning Ruth and Lesle took me to work and they went to church where Ruth helped clean the kitchen. It was their circle’s turn. She picked me up in the evening and we got groceries ($15) on the way home. We still have some Laidig meat. As I think I mentioned on the card we all went to choir practice last Thurs night. Lesle was good and stayed on Ruth’s shoulder while she sang. Next Thurs the rehersal is out at the Blim’s house along with refreshments or something. Last Wed night I babysat while Ruth went to circle. Hope you get the year finished off OK. We may go to Lawrence for commencement in 2 wks. Show this to Aunt Clara and say hello to all.

</letter>
<letter date="No Date – Sun evening 9:45 PM" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

Ruth is feeding Lesle and also just gave her her bath. Ruth thinks she likes her bath much better in the afternoon. Lesle is entirely on the bottle now, and is taking it much better, even from me. However, Ruth doesn’t think the bottle satisfies her completely. She’s been eating more at night lately, also. She apparently weighs a little better than 10 lbs now, although Ruth thinks she isn’t gaining as much as she should considering the fact that she still eats every 2½-4 hours during the day.This is our last sheet of Mysterious Smith paper, so I guess we’ve finally got our money’s worth?
<v-row><letter-image :sources="['9f543bab329ee328cc33343425405e1f_html_7f3cdfe6.jpg']" >This is it – the last piece of Mysterious Smith paper.

</letter-image></v-row>
This morning I baby set and let Ruth go to our class coffee and then to the regular meeting. I had planned to go to church but Ruth was later than I thought she would be and Lesle kept me so busy that I wasn’t even dressed at 11:00. <b>Henceforth</b>, I didn’t make it. Ruth said she had to play the piano and Jim Gleason led the singing. The Gleasons will be over for dinner tomorrow night.Dallas Musgrave will be over Tues for a couple of days. His finals will be over Tues in Lawrence. Mrs. L may be here sometime this week for the garden club flower show. We will go to Oberlin for Father’s Day, 3 wks from today.  We may go over to commencement a week from tomorrow night. We’ll see Mary and Gary Corman if they haven’t gone by that time. Mary receives her degree.This afternoon after dinner we went across the street and visited the Luckeys. They are a nice middle aged couple. Lesle was good for awhile, but then in about an hr got fussy so we left. We talked awhile with the lady directly across in the new house, Mrs. Brownfield. They have 3 children and he is in the air force. They came here from South Carolina. We rested awhile and after supper have been cleaning the house all up for our company. Don’t you work too hard on your cleaning. I have started to go through my file and will clean and straighten it out. Tonight, I have finally painted the corner shelf for the dining room. Yesterday morning I went to lab awhile and in the afternoon I stayed here while Ruth got out for groceries. Later I finished mowing the yard and finally put up the mail-box which looks real nice. We read in the evening. Friday night we stayed at home. Thurs night we went out to the Blim’s for the choir practice. We sang awhile and then listened to the tape recording of our concert. We were home Mon, Tues and Wed nights as I had to study. Had pharmacology exam Thurs morning. My average on the 5 exams was 94%. The high medical student had 92%. We have a final integrated exam this coming Wed but it won’t count so much and Peters said for me to not even study for it. I only answer the pharm questions while the medical students answer questions for all of their subjects. The other 2 graduate students (from microbiology) who took the pharm course with me will have to take a special written exam which I won’t have to take.Mrs. L sent us a new modern brown chair for the living room. It fits in nicely. Tell Aunt Clara and all hello and I hope you get school finished up OK. When do you start the papering? Haven’t got to the clippings yet. Must go paint the 2<sup>nd</sup> coat on that shelf.

</letter>
<letter date="6-13-58" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

Ken and Elizabeth just left after having been here for supper. It got up to 98 today but wasn’t too bad because of a breeze. I don’t know whether we’ll make it without an air-conditioner or not. It looks rainy now but we’ll drive down to P. Office. Lesle slept clear thru one night but she usually awakens between 4:30 and 5:00. We take turns getting up to feed her. She went to church this morning, as usual. Not as many at s.s. as so hot and early services. We’ll be at home all this week and leave for Oberlin Fri noon and start back on Sun after church. Kept busy all this afternoon doing odd jobs around house and helping with Lesle. I get raised to $240 a month starting July 1<sup>st</sup>. I started on German last week, it sure goes slow. Hope you’re all OK and I’ll write again this week.

</letter>
<letter date="6-17-58" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

I’ll write this from the building and mail it on the way out. I’ll enclose some of the back clippings. You may not have wanted all of them returned, but I wasn’t sure of which ones. We were glad to have your letter and clippings today. Today, Ruth received a wedding announcement from Barbara Bell of McPherson. She is to be married July 12<sup>th</sup>, Sat I believe. In case you don’t remember, Barbara was one of Ruth’s roommates and she was in the wedding. If we go we might come by Hutchinson. I’ll let you know what we decide.The weekend in Oberlin went fine although we were all quite tired. Last Fri morning I worked at the lab till 11:30 and then went by the store for some 7-Up on the way home. Lesle gets 7-Up when her tummy needs quieting. It was 20 mins till 2 before we got away, as there were a lot of little things to do and most of the packing. Two of the legs on the crib were pulled up level and it fitted nicely in the back seat of the car. We bought a crib pad to go around the sides, so in case of a sudden stop, Lesle would not bump her head on the hard bars. There was plenty of room for everything in the car. We ate a light lunch on the way and had supper in Downs. Stopped for milk in Junction City. We arrived in Oberlin a little before 10:00. Mrs. L wasn’t worried as she knew we wouldn’t get away by noon, as we had said we would. The total distance is 373 miles. I drove all the way out, but Ruth drove part of the way back. Lesle seemed to be tired on Sat, probably due to the long hot ride. It was cooler on the way back, and has been cooler here the last few days. Fri night I went to bed about 11:30 but Ruth stayed up with her Mother awhile.All the Musgraves were there so it made quite a job for Mrs. L with the cooking etc. Mr. L got in Sat morning from his wheat adjusting. He works at that each summer. Sat afternoon they gave the car its 10,000 mile check-up. I wanted it done there as you can never trust auto places where you don’t know the people. It needed some parts and the total bill was $31. I haven’t had to use any more Valley Federal recently, but will next month when the insurance comes due.Although I complained to Mr. Lucky, again, about the leaky lavoratory, he has done nothing. Ruth and her Mother shopped downtown Sat afternoon and I rested awhile. After supper we went to see Ted Addleman at his drug store. He seemed interested in my working there a few days in Aug. I told him I would let him know for sure after we decided (Dr. Wal and I) how long I should take off. The new graduate student, he’s been in Lawrence, started in here yesterday. The German is going slow as just can’t seem to get to it.Last Sat evening Ruth and I visited several of her old friends while Mrs. L babysat. Sun morning Mr. L (his birthday today) has both Father’s Day and birthday gifts. I had a new sport shirt from Ruth and Lesle. Mr. L was surprised at his s.s. class when they brought in a cake honoring him for his 19 years of teaching the class and his birthday. He’s 61, I think. He was completely surprised but said he should have known something “was up” when there were so many more than usual at his class. There new preacher gave his first sermon at the church service. Mr. L brother, Earl, (the dentist) was over from Danbury, Neb and also stayed for the picnic dinner (inside) at noon. We left a little before 5:00 and got here a little after 1:00 AM. Yesterday Dr. Walaszek and the 3 of us now working here went to Osawatomie.

</letter>
<letter date="6-23-58" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

I’m sitting on the couch with Lesle in front of me on a blanket. She has been pretty fussy the last few days and even refuses the bottle at times. She weighs at least 12 lbs we think. Mrs. L gave us an old baby scales that had been left in the house which they recently purchased. It is the first house just south of them. Eldon has decided to go on to graduate school in education, rather than in law, as previously planned. They’re in Austin, Texas and I guess he is attending the University of Texas for summer school.Tonight it looks rainy again. Yesterday morning we took Hugh and Dot Burford to our s.s. picnic and then to church. The picnic was in Loose Park, which is South and East of the church. It started to rain as we were finishing eating so we had to have the s.s. lesson in the shelter place. Afterwards, we went to church and were about 15 mins late. We all sat in the balcony but Ruth fed Lesle in the parlor during the last part of the service. They have a public address system set up in there so you can here the service. Afterwards, we all came here and had dinner.You may have read about the funnel cloud that passed over K City between about 1:30 and 2:30 PM. Well, we were all sitting here talking about that time and did notice a dark cloud overhead, but did not turn on the radio. I heard sirens but did not associate them with the warning system which was operating. It apparently passed just a little to the North of us and only did very slight damage in one area, due to the wind. The Burfords left, and I heard the all clear after turning on the radio. Since we were not aware of it we had not worried about it.Hugh Burford is the 3<sup>rd</sup> graduate student in our department. They just moved here last week, and Dot, being a registered nurse, will work at the med center. I’ve been studying German a little but am not making a great deal of headway. I’m letting part of the research go while I study it. I must talk with Dr. Walaszek about the exact time for my vacation. Yesterday afternoon, after the Burfords left, we just took it easy and I studied some in the evening. Sat morning I worked as usual, and in the afternoon we returned the proofs of Lesle’s to the studio. You will receive one of the pictures. Sat evening we ate at a drive-in and then got groceries. After that we cleaned house for the company. Last Fri night we went to the Starlight Theater and saw “Fanny.” We about froze as it was very cool. If you come sometime this summer, maybe we can all go again.I was glad to hear that M.J. got along OK. Thurs night we went by the drugstore and then took a ride. Wed night I mowed the yard and Tues night we stayed home. We have a lot of flowers in bloom and more coming. Some were already here, some Mrs. L brought, and some Ruth planted. Ruth takes care of the weeds. We had a pretty bouquet on the table yesterday. We had to go to 6 stores Sat afternoon to find the frog flower holders we were after. Not much special this week. Fri night we may go to Jan Metzners wedding at our church. She is an old college friend of Ruths. If we go to McPherson we would probably want to take Lesle along, so Barbara could see her. We’ll let you know for sure, but I imagine we’ll try to go. Its raining a little now so I guess we won’t have to water the yard any. It’ll have to be mowed on Wed, as usual. Tell Aunt Clara and all hello.

</letter>
<letter date="6-29-58" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

Ruth is rocking Lesle and trying to get her to go asleep. She has been restless and fussy all day and has not eaten an awful lot. It has been hot today, got up to around 90, but hasn’t been too bad in the house. Lesle has been sorta whezzy, again, for a couple of days so we kept her home from church this morning. She was that way once before, and we don’t know whether it is due to the cereal or to a slight touch of cold. I kept Lesle and Ruth went to church. We had no regular s.s. as it was open-house in s.s. Ruth sang in the choir and said there were four altos. All the other bases were there so she was needed more than I was. She did not see the Hugh Burfords. I don’t know whether they’ll come back or not, since they are not Presbyterians. Ruth was home by 11:30 and we splurged and had steak for dinner.This afternoon we have rested, studied, listened to radio, quieted Lesle, etc. I got the flash camera to working, so took a couple of pictures today. We have some other good pictures which we’ll either send or bring. The portraits have not been returned yet. I guess we will definitely go down to the wedding on Sat July 12<sup>th</sup>. Rather than driving Fri night we’ll drive early Sat morning. We’re always so tired when we drive at night. The wedding is at 10:00 AM so we’ll have to leave here about 5:00 AM. It’ll be cooler for Lesle, also. We should be in Hutchinson sometime early in the afternoon.In order for me to get to go to the meetings in Ann Arbor, Michigan I have to present a paper. The state will not allow money to a graduate student or junior faculty member for travel, unless one is presenting a paper. I will give some work which I have not personally done but of which I have been somewhat associated. The meetings are at the University of Michigan and consist of the fall meeting of the pharmacology society. I guess I’ll try to work 2 wks before I go. Maybe one wk in Hutchinson and one in Oberlin. Ruth will probably stay in Oberlin while I am in Michigan and then drive back alone with Lesle afterwards.Last Mon night we were out and mailed your letter and stopped by the drugstore. Tues night we went to an ice cream social at the church. The high school group was raising money for trips, etc. Wed night we were out at the drug and grocery stores. Thurs night we went to Sears on the Plaza and got some crib sheets, hose, and some netting to cover Lesle’s crib. Fri night we went to Jan Metzners and David Clark’s wedding, at the church. She knew Ruth at KU and their parents are both in our church. There was a big crowd and we left Lesle with the mother of the girl who has been babysitting for us. They charge .50 an hr.Yesterday morning I worked at lab awhile. In the afternoon we went to Mission Shopping Center and bought Lesle some socks and then bought our groceries there, rather than at our usual Safeway store. Ruth looked at sandals, etc. but did not find any to her liking. In the evening I read and Ruth went to drugstore awhile. I just withdrew $200 from Valley Federal. That leaves $477 there plus the $1000 in the Investors. Studied German quite a bit last week but I find the words so hard to remember. Much harder than French as there is little to associate the words with, and there is so little similarity to English. As I may have mentioned, if I could pass German in Sept I could take prelims in Jan and graduate a year from Oct. If I don’t pass Ger until Jan - then that delays 3-4 months each time I fail to pass. Tell Aunt Clara and all hello. Glad to hear M.J. home and OK.

</letter>
<letter date="7-6-58" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

Its 5:00 and Lesle is just starting to eat. She weighed 12 lbs 3½ ozs at the Drs. last Tues. She is 24 inches long and the Dr. was more pleased with her weight gain, this time. He switched her to 3 meals a day and then milk just before bedtime. She seems to like the new routine better than when we fed her every 3-4 hours whether she liked it or not. Ruth is going to try her on some strained meat before long. We finally received a Dr. bill for Lesle after missing one for last month. We thought for awhile that he might not charge us, since I’m a student. He doesn’t charge Ken and Elisabeth, but, of course, he’s been a medical student and is a Dr. now.As I wrote in the last letter we’ll drive to McPherson early next Sat morning and then go on over to Hutchinson, afterwards. I hope we’ll be able to see M.J. and Bill also. Today has been somewhat cooler, so has been easier for everyone. We all went to s.s. and church this morning. Not too many at s.s. but good crowd in church. It was only about the 3<sup>rd</sup> or 4<sup>th</sup> time we’ve sat together in the congregation, since we’ve been here. Lesle stayed in the nursery and actually went to sleep. We’ll bring some pictures of Lesle when we come, and also Aunt Clara’s and yours birthday gifts. I got the camera to work for awhile, and got some cute pictures but it’s now on the blink again. Tonight, we’ll take our letters to the P.O. and stop by the drug store for some batteries and flash bulbs.Our flowers are very nice and Ruth does a good job of taking care of them. Our lawn mower is getting dull and needs oiling. This week it rained so much that I had to mow in spurts. Some of the grass got so high that I could hardly push the mower. I studied a little German this afternoon – not much progress. Fri morning, the 4<sup>th</sup>, Dr. Walaszek and I were the only ones at work in the department. Thurs afternoon and all day Fri was the regular holiday for state employes. In the evening, we packed some sandwiches, and went to a drive-in (to celebrate the anniversary of our first date – two yrs ago) and saw “Slim Carter” and “Day of the Bad Man.” It was after midnight when we got home. Lesle was quite fussy for awhile, but later slept through the loud fireworks display.Ruth has been telling some of the ladies in the neighborhood that she is interested in giving piano or drum lessons. The Hogans (next house South) have a 6 yr old who may be interested. Last Tues night we stopped at the Walaszeks for awhile. We wanted them to see Lesle in the pink sunsuit they gave her. Thurs night we visited Alan and Diane Saunders. He’s a junior med. student and she used to live at Sellards. They were just married 2 wks ago. They have a little 3-room house just a block from the med. center.Yesterday we went to downtown K.C.K. and bought a white overblouse as an overdue birthday gift for Mary Jane Laidig and some pillow protectors as part of Ken and Barbara’s wedding gift (at McPherson). Lesle had some orange juice before we shopped at the grocery store and then, afterwards, vomited it up. It was the first time she ever vomited and was due to too much of the orange juice, I guess. Lesle has better control of her left hand, and has turned over several more times. She is happy most of the time and likes to play with her rattles and tear newspaper.
<v-row><letter-image :sources="['9f543bab329ee328cc33343425405e1f_html_1003aa44.jpg']" >Lesle preparing to tear.

</letter-image></v-row>
Aunt Margaret sent Lesle an educator spoon and fork set of stainless steel. Another gift, from Ruths cousin was a light switch plate (ceramic) with her name, birthdate, and weight on it. We put it in the nursery. Mr. L has been in Wyo., Neb., Colo. and S. Dak., hail adjusting. Mrs. L flew up to meet him and they should be home by now. We’ll all see you next Sat. Tell Aunt Clara, M.J. and Bill and Uncle Clyde hello. Lesle enjoys riding and sleeps in the crib all the time. She usually goes right to sleep at night and usually sleeps till 6:30-7:30. Hope you can work something out on the retirement. You can dispose of the bicycle, old tires, tubes etc in any way you see fit.

</letter>
<letter date="7-9-58" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

We were glad to have your letter yesterday. The wedding is at the First Congregational Church in McPherson and is at 10:00 AM. The girl is Barbara Bell and they live at 612 - E - Elisabeth. Barbara doesn’t know we are going. Ruth wanted her to see Lesle. Everything OK here.

</letter>
<letter date="7-20-58" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

Lesle just woke up and Ruth is now feeding her. She has slept all afternoon which may be because it is cloudy and cool today. Yesterday was a real scorcher and we all sweltered. I hope we’ll be able to make it till vacation time, as I hate to spend savings now on an air conditioner which we’d only use a few more weeks.We were glad to receive your letter yesterday. Don’t overdo in all the heat and everything. We’ll take this letter to the post office tonight and will then go by the drugstore to leave some of those negatives to be developed. I have not yet heard from Mr. Addleman in Oberlin so our plans are indefinite as yet. Dallas Musgrave (one at KU) has had the measles, and since none of the other Musgraves have had them, there may be measles there for several weeks yet, which means we couldn’t take Lesle there at the same time. In the last letter Mrs. L said they did not know yet whether it was the 3 day measles or the other kind. Some of his spots had left by the 3<sup>rd</sup> day, however. I’ll let you know as soon as we make any definite plans.This morning we all went to s.s. and church. Not too many in our s.s. class – I guess the attendance is down this summer. I led the singing, as usual. Lesle stayed in the nursery and the ladies said she was real good. She slept during most of church time, they said. I fed Lesle, after we got home, while Ruth got dinner. This afternoon I went over some German and Ruth sorted papers and did some reading. She’s baking an apple pie, right now. We have the furnace on now which is quite a change after the 94 degrees yesterday. Its not bad when there’s a breeze, but, with no breeze, it’s really hot.I forgot to mention that we also had a card from Leila Coe. It was mailed from New York and she said she hoped to see the baby soon. Last Sunday we had a good trip back. That road we took has much less traffic, but is quite bumpy and rough in spots. It makes the trip a few miles longer and also makes it cost .80 more than when you go to Emporia. It rained quite a bit between Emporia and Topeka. We stopped at the turnpike restaurant in Topeka and had dessert after having eaten your sandwiches along the way. It was good to get home early and we neither one were too tired. We stopped by the grocery store and were here before 9:00 PM.Mon night and Fri night we went to the store. Thursday night we went to downtown Missouri to pick up Lesle’s pictures. They turned out fine and we’ll send yours soon. Yesterday morning I worked in lab and then in the afternoon we went to the Jenkens Music Co. Ruth picked out a beginning piano book for her new piano pupil, Karen Hogan. She is 6 yrs old and lives just to our South. Her mother is not sure how she’ll like it, but wants her to try it out. She’ll come on Weds. A neighborhood lady is another possibility for a pupil. We bought Lesle plastic bells to hang in her crib or play pen. She really likes them. She almost grabs ahold of her feet. We stayed home yesterday evening.Tomorrow evening Bob Legg (Ruth’s distant cousin) will be over with a steak and his outdoor broiler. Nothing else much this week. Hope you get your house all finished and cleaned up OK. We had no bad effects from the picnic <footnote>(?) </footnote> and really enjoyed it all. Tell Aunt Clara and all hello. Tell Aunt Clara that I have to be in Chicago by Sun afternoon of the 24<sup>th</sup> and will be back in Chicago by Thurs night or Fri morning.

</letter>
<letter date="7-27-58" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

As usual, about this time, Lesle has just finished her supper. I baby sat this morning rather than going to church. Ruth and another lady had to take care of the nursery for the 2-7 yr olds during church. Lesle stayed home since she has had an infected navel and has been teething this past week. Ruth caught the infection just in time and the Dr. treated it last Thurs. We’re sure she is teething because she is so fussy at times. She was pretty fussy this morning so I guess it was best she didn’t go to church. I did odd jobs around the house in between trying to keep Lesle happy. We had meat-loaf for dinner and have been here all afternoon. I’ve studied and read and Ruth went across the street to take some banana bread which she baked. She also made a pumpkin pie this afternoon. It has been cloudy and about 80 degrees all day – the sun is out now, however. I guess we’ll make it OK without an air-conditioner as the weather has been so rainy and cool for this time of year.Mr. Addleman, of Addleman Drug Store, Oberlin, says he can use me the week of Aug 11-16th. We’ll leave here Sat or Sun of that week. If anyone there has the measles we’ll probably stay at Ruth’s grandmother’s. Ruth will keep the car and drive back here with Lesle, after I get back from Michigan. I may work some the 2<sup>nd</sup> week, and depending on how much I work then, may come back to Hutchinson by bus and then on here by train. You plan on spending whatever time you want to, here, in September.Lee Murray was by the lab on Fri. He was up to see about his room for fall. He’s working for Consolidated Builders ? or somewhere in Hutchinson this summer. At that time I hadn’t heard from Addleman so I told him to tell his dad that I might have some time. We have lots of lab work in the next 2 wks and I’ll study some on German at night. I brought all the magazines in from the car yesterday. They got all mixed up and had to be sorted out. I have them on the bedroom floor and will go thru them gradually.Dr. Walaszek will also be gone the last 3 wks of August. This will leave Al Poisner (the medical student who has worked with me) all alone. His chemical has just arrived, so he is just now able to start on the problem which he had hoped to start at the first of the summer. He has been good help and we have both learned a lot from each other. The Midwest Research Institute, here, is starting a research program in mental health which means there might be job opportunities in the future. Dr. Minz may be offered a job there to start the program. He had planned to return to France this fall, but will probably stay if something good opens up.Yesterday afternoon we went downtown and investigated a home job for Ruth. It consists of knitting on a machine they set up in your home. It sounds only fair as you have to pay for the machine over a period of 2-3 years and <b>henceforth</b>, have to do more than enough each week to cover that expense. We stopped by Sears and got a gift for a baby, Ruth found some shoes ($2.98), and we bought some flannelete sheets with rubber in between. Last week’s evenings were as usual, some out some in, to store, by Ken and Elisabeth’s (they gave Lesle a new outfit) etc. Tell Aunt Clara and Uncle Clyde hello. We’ll go riding this evening and mail our letters. We have more new pictures and the Hutchinson ones turned out real well. We’ll send them in time.

</letter>
<letter date="8-2-58" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

Lesle has had her supper and she and Ruth are now out taking a walk. As they usually do, they have probably stopped at somebody’s house. This Wed evening there will be a jewelry party at our house. One of the ladies in the church works for the company and for some reason she had to schedule several extra parties. Ruth offered to take one of the parties and has invited several of the neighborhood ladies – there should be 12-14 here. The only complication is that Ruth’s Aunt Lenore (Mrs. L’s sister from Florida) and her Grandmother may be here the same evening. They are driving back to the Williams reunion in Indiana, and have planned to make this their first overnight stop. Mrs. L may drive back to Ind to bring Grandmother back to Oberlin. Tomorrow night Alan and Diane Sanders will be here for dessert. He is a junior med student and she lived at Sellards Hall. I think I told you about stopping at their house earlier, just after they were married. For having the jewelry party at our house Ruth will receive some credit on jewelry – nice, except we have no money for such things right now.We will probably leave for Oberlin next Sat morning. I finally heard from Ted Addleman and he will use me the week of the 11<sup>th</sup>-16<sup>th</sup>. Since I have worked at the Med Center a yr I have12 days vacation with pay accumulated. Since I’m taking off 15 working days Dr. Peters will fix it so that I won’t lose any pay. The 2<sup>nd</sup> wk is still somewhat indefinite. I will write Murray tonight and if he or anyone else, wants me that week I’ll work. If there is no work I’ll probably stay the first half of the wk in Oberlin and then come on to Hutchinson, by bus, the last half before going to Michigan. I’ll let you know definitely later.I guess I can’t possibly be ready for the German exam given in the last part of September. I had thought earlier that I would definitely be ready to try it then, but I just haven’t got the studying in. I’ll have to pass it in Jan or be delayed in graduation. I’m doing preliminary work on my thesis problem now, and should have it well underway by fall.Today has been hot, 91, but Lesle stood it quite well – she laughed and laughed, out loud, at supper time. We all went to s.s. and church this morning. It was hot but I wore a coat in church. There was a good crowd to here the former pastor (1946-1956). Lesle was very good for the ladies and slept some. I guess I’m prejudice, but Lesle seems to have more personality than other babies. We have spent our usual Sunday afternoon at home, resting, reading, etc. Ruth took some cookies to the Brownfields (across the street in new house) and then stayed a couple of hrs to watch a TV movie which she wanted to see. We’ll go to the post office later. This will be my first letter upon which to use 4 cents.Yesterday afternoon I went by Gerald Bernstein’s (boy who works in department – goes to KU this fall) uncle’s drug-store. I looked over the new drugs so I will be up when I work in Oberlin. We went to the grocery store later in the afternoon. We were at home yesterday evening. Our evenings last week were as usual, with nothing unusual. I had a heavy week in lab and will have another this week. Tell Aunt Clara and all hello. Will be anxious to see the house. We have a birthday present for Jimmy which we have never mailed. We’ve had nice flowers all summer.

</letter>
<letter date="8-10-58" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

We’re all in the living room here at the Laidigs and the television is on. I’ll write this and then walk downtown and mail it. Downtown is just a few blocks away, as you probably remember. Ruth and I just came back from the movie, “Merry Andrew.” It was very funny. <footnote>Grandmother underlined the following sentence. </footnote> I assure you that the only time we ever go to a movie on Sun night is here at Oberlin.This morning, we slept a little later, and then went to s.s. and church. Mr. Laidig teaches the s.s. class which meets in the church sanctuary. Lesle was good at first, in s.s. but thengot to making noises and laughing out loud, so Ruth had to take her outside. I met Dr. Coffman, who is one of the three doctors in town. His wife played the organ in place of the usual organist (the one that played at our wedding, I believe). I also met Dott Addleman. He is the 84 yr old father of Ted Addleman, who left on his vacation this morning. The older Mr. Addleman will be at the store next week so it shouldn’t be too difficult as he will know where everything is. Ted is the song leader for the s.s. class.During church, Lesle stayed in the nursery where there was at least one other child. The church is well air-conditioned so the men all had their coats on. I guess your church will have air-conditioning sometime. After church we all had dinner here. There were 11 for dinner. Don Musgrave’s (He’ll be a senior at College of Emporia) girl-friend Alice (from Ottawa) was here. She left this afternoon. Dallas’s girlfriend Marlene was here also. Mrs. L had to hurry after dinner to make it to her capping ceremony for the Gray Ladies <footnote>(American Red Cross volunteers)</footnote> . Ruth and her dad went along. I baby sat and Lesle slept most of the afternoon. I took a nap, also. Mr. and Mrs. L went to an anniversary reception and open-house later in the afternoon. We left for the show after eating a snack supper.Mr. Addleman wants me to stay on for the Mon a week from tomorrow, if I don’t hear anything from Hutchinson. I think I wrote you that I dropped a line to Murray, saying that I could be available for the 2<sup>nd</sup> week. I, of course, haven’t heard anything, as yet. I told Wilber to tell the salesman, also. Assuming that I don’t hear anything, I’ll work the Mon a week from tomorrow, and then take the bus to Hutchinson Tues or Wed. I’ll try to drop you a line after I decide. I’ll leave Hutchinson in time to have a few hrs in Kans City to mow the yard and check on things.
<v-row><letter-image :sources="['9f543bab329ee328cc33343425405e1f_html_72f221ed.jpg', '9f543bab329ee328cc33343425405e1f_html_bc74502a.jpg']" >Lesle with Grammy, and Grandpa Picklepuss

</letter-image></v-row>

<v-row><letter-image :sources="['9f543bab329ee328cc33343425405e1f_html_d1dd453c.jpg', '9f543bab329ee328cc33343425405e1f_html_cde00320.jpg']" >Lesle with Great Grandmother Ruth, Mom and Grammy.



</letter-image></v-row>
Yesterday morning, we were up at 6:00 and got away by 8:00 AM. I had to stop by the Med Center and leave some books. As usual, we took the turnpike to Topeka. We got gas, and had an early lunch at Junction City. Our next stop was at Smith Center, where we had some pop. We stopped at Phillipsburg for milk, but Lesle didn’t need it until we got here. We arrived about 5:15 and we all had a good dinner about 6:30. Mrs. L really has work with so many people around. After supper, Ruth and I drove downtown. I talked with Ted till 9:30 (He closed at 9:00) and Ruth went on home, earlier, with her Mother. The store is open from 8:00-6:00 Mon to Fri and then till 9:00 on Sat. The older Addleman with be there to let me come home for lunch.Last week I ran an experiment each day, which meant quite a bit of work. I have made a fair start, in the last month, on my definitive thesis problem, although we have no real positive results, as yet. We’ll hit the research quite hard this fall. Dr. Walaszek leaves this Wed on his vacation. He goes to his home in Chicago and will probably be on the same train that I’ll take to Ann Arbor. The meetings are Mon-Thurs noon so Ruth will probably drive back to K City on that Friday. I’ll probably take Labor day off and start back on Tues.Last Mon night Alan and Diane Sanders (the medical student) were up for dessert (pecan pie). Ruth’s grandmother and her Aunt Lenore, from Florida arrived about 5:00 PM Wed and then in the evening there were about 12 ladies present for the jewelry party. We stayed up till 12:30, afterwards, and visited with Aunt Lenore after grandmother had gone to bed. They were going to the Williams reunion in Ind.     Lesle stood the trip real well and was less tired than usual. I was more relaxed and let Ruth do some of the driving. Lesle is good most of the time and laughs out loud if you play with her in certain ways. She turned over last night, and got fussy about 3:30 which is the first time we’ve been awakened that early in a long time. We brought her play pen and crib and Mrs. L has borrowed a baby buggy. Tell Aunt Clara hello, if she’s still there and I’ll see you all next week.

</letter>
<letter date="8-18-58" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

Will leave on bus tomorrow at 2 PM. Am not sure what time it arrives in Hutchinson.

</letter>
<letter date="8-25-58" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

Had a good trip up this morning. The little train was right on time at Hutch, but the one in Newton was a few minutes late. It rained a little bit along the way. In Hutch I left the station and bought a paper before we left. We arrived about 12:00. I ate half the food just before we got here. I took a cab out here. The yard was so high that I could only mow 1/3 of the yard. Just couldn’t move the mower thru the other parts. Talked to lady across the street. She thinks a man down the street will do it for $2-3. Called Al Poisner (med st.) and asked him about how his work was going. He said he thinks my talk is Tues, the 1<sup>st</sup> day. Ruth called – Folks got home OK – said someone may come with her – I hope so. Grandmother was stung by wasp and spent day in hospital – better now. Lesle was crying (could hear her) – said they visited relatives yesterday and Lesle probably tired. Ruth had a call from lady wanting to know if jewelry came. Also thank you note from lady for the jewelry party. Train leaves at 6:30. Had rest of food and corn and strawberries tonight – rested and studied. Tell Aunt Clara hello and thanks.

</letter>
<letter date="8-27-58" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

Am writing this at the post office. It has been real cool here, but was a little warmer today. Meetings were good today. I give mine in the morning. We are staying in the big dorm at South Quadrangle. It is a nice co-ed dorm, I guess, with women on one floor and men on the other when school. It is a huge campus and the pharmacology department has huge new quarters. Am tired today. Was nervous last night and didn’t go right to sleep and Edd snored and kept me awake ha! We may not leave till later on Thurs so we can visit the hospital (psychiatric) out a few miles. Tell all hello.

</letter>
<letter date="9-1-58" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

It is warmer now after being cooler this morning and last night. Mr. Combs from across the street has just started to mow the part of the lawn that I wasn’t able to cut. He, of course, has a power mower. I expect I’ll pay him from $3-5 depending on how long he takes. Lesle got us up about 7:00 this morning, but we rested a bit after she had breakfast. She has been fussy all morning and was yesterday, also.(Now 8:00 PM). I’ve been studying some German words and Ruth is now figuring out the money from the jewelry party. The box of jewelry was sent on to Oberlin. It all came in one box so they have had to come by here to pick it up. I paid the man $3.50 for the mowing, since that was in line with what they had paid him across the street when they first moved in and their grass was too high for their hand mower. It took him about 1½ hrs and I then raked the grass that showed and carried it all to the fireplace. It was hot and I got quite tired, so I lay down awhile before supper.Tomorrow I’ll go to lab and get started again on the research. I’ll have to go to the bank in the morning. The car has some tar splattered on it from the trip, so I must clean that off soon. Thurs night is the first choir practice. Hugh Burford (the 3<sup>rd</sup> graduate student) has expressed an interest in singing so I’ll let him know when it is. We’ll probably go to Lawrence some Friday night, soon, for the Mariners meeting (married couples group). Yesterday morning we all went to s.s. and church. Lesle was fairly good but did not sleep any. Not too many at s.s. but we should have more when we go back to the regular time schedule, next Sun. Rev. Moyes was back from his vacation, also. There is a new tenor in the quartet, this year. We ate dinner and spent the rest of the day as usual resting, reading, studying, etc.We borrowed Ken and Elisabeths “Teeter Babe” a cloth supported chair that sits on the floor and rocks a little.
<v-row><letter-image :sources="['9f543bab329ee328cc33343425405e1f_html_a339e2e5.jpg', '9f543bab329ee328cc33343425405e1f_html_13fea8c4.jpg']" >Lesle in the Teeter Babe.

</letter-image></v-row>
Grandmother gave Lesle a blue checked chemise diaper set. From John’s a pink pinafore and a knit Carter’s diaper set. (They were in that box that came to Oberlin) a pink diaper shirt from Mom, Blue and White booties from friends in Oberlin (Stevenson’s of the other drug store). A used plastic swimming pool for next summer and then the car seat that I bought just before I left Oberlin. Mom made a padded lining for the car seat.A week ago yesterday morning I did not sleep too sound as I did not think we had an alarm clock. We had but I had forgotten about it. I was up and made it to station in plenty of time. I saw Dr. Peters (he doesn’t like airplanes as he had a narrow escape once) and he went on an earlier train. I had to wait for the El Capitan which was 2 hrs late. We were 2 hrs late into Chicago and I just barely made it on the New York Central. I met Edd and Dr. Peters there and they had drinks while I had a coke. We rode in the lounge car most of the way. Got into Ann Arbor about 9:30 and after registering went with 5 others (friends of Edd’s) to the college hangout. They all had beer except me. We visited, later, the fabulous new quarters for the Depart of Pharm at the U of Michigan. Probably the largest department in the world.Mon was a teaching institute or symposium with about 8 talks. The food was fine and was served in the cafeteria of the South Quadrangle Dormitory where we all stayed. Mon night was a smoker at the VFW. I was probably the only one there who wasn’t drinking beer or liquor. The papers were given on Tues, Wed and Thurs morning. Tues night was the banquet at the union. Wives there, etc., and Wed night was another smoker. They all said I did real well on the paper. Must have been 100-125 there. All 4 of KU’s papers went well.Left on 12:46 train Thurs and in K City about 2:30 AM. Edd met family in Chicago and will be back a week from Wed. Took El Cap back. Slept late Fri morning. Al took me to lab and back in afternoon and then Ruth, Lesle and Mom arrived Fri about 5:30. They had a good trip for so hot a day. We ate at drive-in and Mom went back on bus Sat morning early. We rested Sat morning. Spent rest of Sat unpacking, etc. Ruth went for groceries in the evening. Tell Aunt Clara and all hello. I assume I’ll hear tomorrow about your job. I bought an extra copy of that booklet of abstracts for the meeting and will send it to you soon.

</letter>
<letter date="9-7-58" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

We’re in the living room and listening to recorded <footnote>(sic)</footnote> . We bought a hi-fi phonograph from Dr. Minz today. Dr. Minz is definitely going back to France on Oct 15<sup>th</sup>. <b>Henceforth</b>, they are selling their only pieces of furniture which they have here, a hi-fi and a TV It is on legs and has a black case – about 20” x 20” x 10”.
<v-row><letter-image :sources="['9f543bab329ee328cc33343425405e1f_html_befbcd9b.jpg']" >This is the hi-fi Dad is describing. A few years later. With Alan who wouldn’t stop touching it.

</letter-image></v-row>
They have had it for a yr and paid $150 for it. It has a $25 diamond needle which should be good for 2-3 years, and it is much easier on records. We are paying him $75 for it. I think it is a pretty good buy and is certainly satisfactory for us now. We have listened to some of the records that we have never heard. Mr. L gave Ruth $50 for it so we’ll only have to use $25 of our savings. I finally paid the last $10 on Lesle’s hospital bill ha!This evening we’ve been reading and I looked at some German. As I told Ed, I figure I have a 50-50 chance of passing in Jan. I had thought I’d be able to take it this month. Nothing much this week at night except that choir practice is Tues rather than Thurs night. We’re not sure yet what Fri night we’ll go to Lawrence. We’ll stop by and show Lesle off to Ernie. I want to call Dr. Wenzel and tell him about his former pupils that I saw at the meeting.Today has been fairly warm, although it was cool this morning. We all went to s.s. and church. Better crowd at s.s. as we were back on the later time. Good choir and church crowd. We left for Osawatomie as soon as we finished lunch. Lesle was good for the Minzs and another Dr. and his wife who were there (psychiatrist). Lesle got tired riding (it was hot) and since she was awake much of the morning she went to bed early. Osawatomie is about 55 miles away. Mr. and Mrs. L will be here the 1<sup>st</sup>-5<sup>th</sup> of Oct. Mr. wants a thorough check-up at the clinic and Mrs. will go to the flower show on the 3<sup>rd</sup>.Lesle went to the Dr. last Wed and he said she was doing fine. She weighs 13 lbs 7 oz (on the low side of normal) and is 25” long. Ruth showed him how she wants to stand all the time – and he said she’d probably start walking early and wear her Mother out. Her next shoes will be semi-hard soles since she’ll be standing so much. She eats all solids now, including jello and potatoes. She drinks almost a quart of milk each day.We borrowed Holladay’s jumper chair and Lesle’s getting so she’s contented in it for quite a while. I think if we had had it sooner, Lesle would be sitting more and would not be quite so anxious to stand. We went to the first choir practice last Thurs and Lesle actually sat on Ruth’s lap through most of the rehearsal. There was a big crowd out for rehearsal. We have all the basses back except for one boy who has gone to college. Yesterday afternoon we went shopping and bought Lesle 2 pairs of coverall crawlers in the 6 month size. They’re still huge for her so we figure they should fit about right when she needs them. One’s red and the other blue.Ruth has dug up space around the corn lilies for seeds and bulbs to bloom in the spring. I’ll have to mow the yard, once more, this week. We were glad to hear that you had gotten the study hall job and hope everything is going fine and you enjoy it. Come up some week-end if you can. Tell Aunt Clara and all hello. Ruth likes the new trousers very much and so do I. I wore them to church yesterday and as I may have told you I wore them all but one day on the trip.

</letter>
<letter date="9-15-58" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

Everything fine here. Will write a letter after we receive yours today or tomorrow. Glad to have your card last week and hope you had a good trip to Jetmore. It is raining today and has been all night. Lesle can sit up now although she will lose her balance.

</letter>
<letter date="9-16-58" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

We were glad to have your letter and to hear that you had a good trip to Jetmore, and also that the job is working out OK. It has been raining almost continuously here for 2 days and the weather report says there will be more tomorrow. The yard will probably grow up some, but there’s not much point in mowing it again this late. I could hardly push the mower last time and about wore myself out. It is very dull and we’ll have to have it sharpened before spring.We’ve been home the last 3 nights and I’ve been studying on German. After working awhile, just on the vocabulary cards, I’ve now gone back to the book to do some further reading and add more vocabularly. I’ll work on grammer after the vocabularly is built up some more. The exam is Jan 17<sup>th</sup> and I’m going to make every effort to be ready. The graduate course has its first meeting next Mon night and I have a lecture to give to the nurses next week. I took 2 of the nurses lectures but Ed gave me one of his outlines so it won’t take too much work.Ruth just now says to tell you that the picture of Lesle which she had marked for you was not the one that she wanted you to have. Unless you say anything, we’ll mail the right one to you in the near future and you can send that one back. Ruth has done a lot of sewing. She has made 2 blankets for Lesle and has a sleeper outfit almost finished.She had the car today for shopping and so had to come after me. The car seat makes it easy to take Lesle along. Ruth had to stop suddenly, once today, she said, and bumped Lesle a bit on the car seat “steering wheel” but it didn’t hurt her. Lesle liked to sit and watch the other cars go by.My trip to the meetings in the spring in Atlantic City depends on whether we turn out a good piece of research this fall. Dr. Minz is returning to France on Oct 15<sup>th</sup> but we’ll still receive serum from Osawatomie. Ed was very sick in Chicago after the meeting and they think he might have had diphtheria, although it wasn’t for sure. I, of course, was exposed at the best time (just before he took sick) as I rode on the train with him from Ann Arbor to Chicago. He feels pretty good now and I guess I won’t get what he had or I would have it by now.Thurs night we have to go to choir early as Ruth has to practice with her circle singing group. My expenses on the trip were $100.71. I’ll get this back and we’ll use that to pay for the hi-fi. We’ve already spent Mr. L’s $50. We’ve joined a record club as we have so few good records. Mr. and Mrs. L will be here Thurs-Sun Oct 2<sup>nd</sup> to 5<sup>th</sup>. Mr. L has his checkup appointment on Thurs and they’ll stay till Sunday, probably. Maybe you could come a weekend after that. Mrs. L was here from Tues till Sat last week. It was nice she could babysit on Tues night for choir. On Wed they went to circle, and on Thurs night to a neighbor lady’s baby shower. I baby sat both times.We all went to church last Sun, as usual. Lesle was pretty good. She was sure fussy this evening and cried and cried before her bottle. We didn’t do much else last week of significance. We have a new graduate student, Joe Underwood. He may work for us. Tell all hello. Hope you all had a good fair. Is Bobby teaching some, and when will he graduate? I assume he’s in botany? Is he working on his research, or did you ask.

</letter>
<letter date="9-22-58" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

I’ll start this now, but may have to finish this evening after our first class in the new graduate course. Dr. Walaszek is in charge, but he will not give all of the lectures as some will be given by other members of the department and some by visitors from other departments. There will be two lectures a week on Monday night from 7:30-9:30 PM. The course will run for both the fall and winter quarters of each year with a total of 4 different courses. <b>Henceforth</b>, each course will be given every 2 years.(Its now Tues 5:30 PM) – I’m at the lab and will mail this on my way out. Joe Underwood, a new potential graduate student, is now working with me in my lab. He will work here this year, and if everything is OK, he’ll start in Lawrence next year. Sorta on a trial basis like I was that spring. If he hadn’t come along Ed would have hired a technician, but he won’t now as he only has money for the one extra person. Joe is 10 days older than I am, has been married for 2 months, and they think his wife is pregnant (you would say not to write that). He was in the service 3½ yrs and has a degree in chemistry from South Dakota Wesleyian. He is from Virginia originally, and had been working at a veterinary lab here in Kan City when he got interested in pharmacology.Thanks for the card and money yesterday. <footnote>Grandmother writes in the side margin: “I stuck in $2.00 so card wouldn’t seem so empty for him.” </footnote> At noon Ruth said I had a card from Aunt Clara and one from M.J. and Bill. I may have some presents when I get home ha! Tonight I have to write up an hr lecture for the student nurses. It is at 3:00 PM Thurs and is on the drugs used to treat epilepsy. These are the beginning nurses here at the center and they receive a pharm course consisting of about 30 lectures. I promised to give one other lecture, also. Tomorrow afternoon I have to keep Lesle awhile as Ruth has to see the Dr. She has a little infection which never cleared up, so he will cauterize it then. I’m not sure whether I’ll keep Lesle here, or at the Dr.’s office.Ed is in Osawatomie today. We will go there on Oct 2<sup>nd</sup> to hear Dr. Minz’s speech for the symposium on Schizophrenia, which will be held there for 2-3 days. Tomorrow night I have to babysit while Ruth goes to circle. They have a sextet in which she’s singing. Thurs night is choir and Fri night we go to Lawrence for that meeting of the young married group. Next Sun afternoon we have to call for World-wide Communion Sunday. Today has been rainy and cloudy. It has been warmer however, the last few days. Last Sat afternoon we cleaned the house and then Lee Murray was over for supper. He brought his tricks to show me and then left about 9:00 PM. He didn’t say whether he had a date. We all went to church and s.s. as usual. I read the scripture as no one else showed up for it. Ruth missed church and took care of the Rock-a-Bye Room. (Our class sponsers it.) There were 3 others besides Lesle.We were invited to Hugh and Dot Burfords (graduate student) for dinner. Lesle was pretty good but didn’t sleep very long. She occasionally wakes up at night, now, I guess it’s the so called 6-months anxiety. She sits alone, but may topple over as she tries to stretch out. We stayed at the Burfords till about 4:00. They loaned us some of their records which they weren’t using now. Hint for gifts for the future ha! 33 revolutions/min long playing records. We are still using Laidig meat. They will be here next week for his appointment and for her flower show. Nothing else last week but choir on Thurs night. Lesle wouldn’t eat at the church that night. Bobby probably has to teach part time. Lesle has had all of her diphtheria shots. We never turned our furnace off. Glad to have your letters. Tell Aunt Clara and M.J. and Bill hello.

</letter>
<letter date="10-6-58" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

I’ll start this tonight while in bed. Ruth has just put Lesle to bed, but I’m not sure that she is completely asleep. She should be tired as Ruth and she went to a baby shower for the Mrs. Hogan who lives just South of us. Ruth said that Lesle was good and did sleep some while she was there. The last few days have been warmer after several quite chilly ones. Tomorrow night is choir practice, while on Wed night I have to baby sit while Ruth goes to circle meeting. She is taking Mrs. Marjorie Wilson along. Mrs. Wilson (and Mr.) are the family we promised to contact for the friendship evangelism program. As I think Ruth said in her last letter we took her to church a week ago yesterday. <u>Tues Morning</u> – Mrs. Wilsons husband is an intern at the med center and had a degree in pharmacy from Colorado before entering the U of Colo Med School.It rained quite hard early this morning, and is cloudy now. Dr. Minz will be in today for the last time, and to do his last expt with us. I’m borrowing $35 from Dr. Walaszek today, in order to be able to pay Dr. Minz for the phonograph. I’ve written for $100 of Investors, and the $96 from the trip is yet to come back. I should have gotten an advance on the trip, but didn’t think of it at the time. In short, I still haven’t got the money back from my work in Oberlin, as I used that for the trip. Last Fri afternoon, rather than having seminar, our department gave a tea (farewell) for Mr. and Mrs. Minz. Ed and I were to have given the seminar, so we will now be up tomorrow (the time is being changed from Fri to Wed). My lecture to the nurses went OK, and I have one more to give them, later this month. Hugh Burford and I, since we’re enrolled in the graduate course, will have to give hour seminars near the end of Nov. Bob Volle (one who graduates in Jan) will give one also.Lesle is now playing and some of her teeth are almost through. She has been pretty fussy lately and we’re sure some of it has been teeth. The German is going so slow, only I’ve only covered 29 of the 150 pages, in the sense of getting the words all down on cards – about 1200, I guess. With Joe in the lab, etc., I’m expected to do lab work all day, with no time for study. Of course, the lab work is all in vain until I pass German.Mr. and Mrs. L arrived last Thurs noon, after having started the evening before and staying at Junction City overnight. Mr. L’s checkup went OK and the only thing they could find was what he already knew – that he was a little overweight. Mrs. L had a sore throat and so did not hold Lesle. We took Lesle to choir on Thurs night as Mrs. had her flower club (8 state district meeting) and Mr. didn’t want to tackle Lesle alone. Fri night Mr. L took us to the bazzar and supper at the grade school down the road. Later in the evening I drove to the Townhouse Hotel (K.C., Ks) and picked up Mrs. from her final flower club dinner. They left about Sat noon after Mr’s last appointment.I worked Sat till 3:00 PM, as we had to get the expt ready for today. Ruth and Lesle went shopping, and since it was hot it about wore them out. We stayed at home Sat night and Sun afternoon and evening and I caught up a little on studying. We all went to s.s. and church. It was world-wide communion and the church was filled. The choir had lots of singing to do. Last Thurs afternoon Joe, Ed and I went to Osawatomie to hear Dr. Minz’s talk at their institute. Come up some weekend and tell Aunt Clara and all hello.

</letter>
<letter date="10-15-58" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

I’ll start this while I’m at the lab. Joe Underwood has gone to lunch and I’ll go in a little bit. Joe’s car was stolen from the parking lot last Thurs. He had left the keys in it by mistake so apparently some kid was tempted. It was recovered the next day out in Overland Park (suburb). I drove him home and back on Thurs, and then Fri morning, after the police called, I drove Joe and his wife out to pick up the car. The seminar went OK on Friday, also.We were glad to have your letter last week. It will be fine with us for you to come to K.C. on Fri or Sat the 23<sup>rd</sup> or 24<sup>th</sup>. You might bring a pillow or two since we only have two of the regular kind, plus two throw pillows for the couch. Let me know the exact time of your arrival so we can meet you at the station. Joe said his Mother came in from Virginia last night. They are all going to South Dakota next week to visit his wife’s folks. We watched for Kenny, also, that 1<sup>st</sup> Wed night on TV at the Brownfields, across the street. Last Wed night I told Mrs. Brownfield to call if he appeared, so she did, and I got to hear most of his playing.It has been warm over the weekend, after a few cooler day. I must have the car fixed for winter this week, sometime. Ruth wants the car tomorrow for shopping. Last Tues night we went to choir practice. Lesle was pretty good and went to sleep in a back room. There was only one other bass, but I left awhile to watch her so Ruth could sing. We take turns at choir, if she’s fussy. Sat morning I worked and then we went shopping in the afternoon in K.C., Missouri. We came back by the grocery and bought the most groceries we have in a long time. Sat night we went to a movie, “Gigi.” It was the first show I’d been to since Aug (in Oberlin). We hired a neighbor girl for baby-sitter and she only charged .35 an hr. We were gone 3 hours.Sun morning I went to church alone as Lesle has had a touch of cold for several days and we thought it best to keep her at home. Not too many at s.s. but good crowd in church. We have 4 regular basses this year. I studied and read the rest of the day. Ruth has been sewing some for Lesle, and I’m sure you’ll think she’s really grown up. One lower tooth is beginning to break through and may be in by the time you get her. As a result she has been pretty fussy, and yesterday, just wouldn’t take a nap. Tonight is the graduate course, and nothing else this week except choir practice. Last Wed night I babysat while Ruth went to circle. Dr. Stan Frieson came over to my table one noon in the cafeteria and introduced himself. He had been eating with Dr. Peters. He knew Dr. Walaszek because he had operated on their boy when he was a little baby. We’ll look forward to seeing you and Aunt Clara soon. I think we have plenty of blankets and quilts, but you could bring one if you wanted, too, if its cold.

</letter>
<letter date="10-21-58" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

I’ll make this short as I assume I’ll see you and Aunt Clara this weekend. I had hoped that I would hear from you by today. I’ll be glad to meet you any time you arrive and we’ll be glad to go to Cinerama or whatever you want to do. (I’m writing this in the car). We had a nice visit with M.J. and Bill on Sunday afternoon just after they arrived. M.J. didn’t feel too good and thought she might have a touch of kidney infection. They stayed till about 4:30. Bill hadn’t been able to find his brother at home by that time. I’m studying German this week as our technician or graduate student has gone to his wife’s folks. Hope to see you both this weekend and don’t worry about your being any inconvenience as we want to have both, and I know you want to see Lesle.

</letter>
<letter date="11-10-58" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

Dear Aunt Clara, I’ll write this while I’m eating my lunch at my desk. I’ve been bringing my lunch for the last several days, and thereby have more time at the noon hour. Joe Underwood, the fellow who works with us, just left for his lunch. They were expecting a baby in 6-7 months, but his wife lost it last week. She was quite disappointed but he said they were now somewhat relieved. She can now go back to work. It would have been very difficult for them next year as he will be in Lawrence taking courses and she would not have been able to work very easily with a baby.The last few days have been somewhat warmer and today is clear and sunny. I just called home and Ruth said we received my Mother’s letter. Lesle enjoys her new high chair very much, and she’ll now stay happier for longer periods of time while we eat. Yesterday she was really using her 3 teeth as she was eating some Ritz crackers. Also, thanks again to you for the pillows. We may move the organ into the dining room and Ruth is going to make new curtains for the dining room. Mrs. Brownfield (across the street) is giving us some old sheets to make them from and Ruth will add some designs as she did in the kitchen. Sat Ruth cleaned and waxed in the bedroom. Sat afternoon I had planned to wash and wax the car. I went to work Sat morning and felt tired and I ached all over. I stayed in bed the rest of the day Sat and then felt much better yesterday. I must have had a fever as I was sure hot Sat. I guess it was the flue. Ruth has had a touch of cold and Lesle had a touch of diarrhea and sore throat just before her Dr.’s appointment last Wed. The Dr. gave her a shot and some medicine and she seems to be OK now. The Brownfields have been sick, too, so I guess there’s a lot of it around.I hope you’re feeling OK these days and are not overdoing. Last week I stayed home with Lesle on Thurs night while Ruth went to choir practice. We were home the other evenings last week. Ruth had planned to stay home with Lesle yesterday morning, so, since I was sick we all stayed at home. It seemed unusual for all of us to miss s.s. and church. This Wed night is the dinner for those who are calling (pledges) next Sun afternoon. I’m not sure I’ll go since I have so much studying to do. My hour seminar for the graduate course is 2 wks from tonight.Lesle will stand by herself for a few seconds if she is quiet, and is not interested in “dancing.” I’m sure she’ll walk before she ever crawls. I’ll have to wait till a little nearer the time to decide on Thanksgiving. Our exam for the graduate course is 3 wks from today so it may depend upon how much studying I get done for that beforehand. Let Mother read this this and hope you’re all OK.

</letter>
<letter date="11-10-58" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

I’ll start this now, while I’m at the lab. We were glad to have your card last week and to know that you and Aunt Clara made it home OK. I hope Aunt Clara is feeling better and that it was not due to the long ride. I thought you folks might not be able to come back, soon. I’ll let you know about Thanksgiving a little closer to the time. Today is warmer and yesterday was nice, also. We all went to church yesterday morning. Sat we thought that maybe Lesle had a cold, but I guess it was largely due to her 3<sup>rd</sup> tooth (upper left) coming in. Her other upper tooth looks like it could come through any time. I just called home and they were just getting ready to take a walk. They have been doing that for the last several days, since the weather has been so nice. Lesle is then more tired and will take a longer nap after supper.Yesterday afternoon we went to that Thanksgiving dinner ($1 a ticket) at the Catholic school, with the Brownfields (across the street). It was very good but we had to wait in line for an hour and Lesle was so tired she went to sleep, but then was fussy during the meal. We left at 2:00 and were really hungry by the time we ate at 3:00. I studied German the rest of the day and finished that first once over of the book. This week I must get a good start on my seminar and then back on the grammer.Thanks to you and Aunt Clara, again, for the gifts. Those few extra dollars are helping tide the food bill over until I get some more money. Ruth ordered the high chair a week ago today. Sat morning I cleaned up the lab and then in the afternoon we cleaned the windows and storm windows and then put them up in place of the screens. They were very dirty and looked as if they had never been cleaned. We have glass window like panes for the 3 doors but a couple of them have panes out. The living room seems much warmer and there is not as much breeze. I didn’t get the car washed and polished so will do that next week-end. Ruth thoroughly cleaned the living room and aired all the curtains. After getting the windows up we went to the store and were then home in time for Lesle’s supper. In the evening I studied some German.The lecture for the nurses went OK last Wed. This Wed Hugh Burford (graduate student from whom we’ve borrowed records) and I are up for seminar. We are up more times for seminar journals this year since there are no hour seminars as in the past. Tonight is the graduate course and Thurs night is choir. We’re preparing our Christmas program (around the table sing) to be given in the church basement. Wed night is a church dinner and business meeting but we’re not going. It costs money and I need the study time. They’re voting on that parking lot etc. 3 wks from tonight is my seminar and 2 wks from yesterday is the calling for pledges, which I have promised to do.Nothing much else new. We all went to choir last Thurs and Lesle slept in the nursery since we practiced in the basement. We were home all the other nights I believe. I’m writing this with a ball point pen as my good pen is broken. Tell Aunt Clara and all hello.

</letter>
<letter date="11-17-58" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

I’ll start this now and then finish it after I call home at noon. Joe and I are now waiting for some serum to come from Osawatomie so that we can run an experiment. We haven’t found anything spectacular as yet, but I think I’ll get to go to Atlantic City in the spring, anyway. Of course, Ruth wants to go so we can see her brother John. It rained a lot last night and this morning. It is quite cloudy now, also. I guess that snow is forecast for Western Kansas. Tonight is the graduate course and Bob Volle and Hugh Burford, the other graduate students, will give their seminars. Mine was scheduled for a week from tonight, but has been postponed till 2 wks from tonight, since a week from today there will be visiting us a professor who is a potential new staff member, here. Dr. Peters has been looking for someone for some time. The above delay means that my exam for the graduate course and my seminar will both be on the same day, Dec 1<sup>st</sup>, the Mon following the Thanksgiving weekend. I’ll try to get everything done I can, this week, so that there will be a chance of going to Hutch. I don’t think Dr. Walaszek will mind if he thinks I have my talk ready. Dr. W is not here this morning since he called in and said he wasn’t feeling too well. He may have the same bug I had last weekend. We have all felt pretty good since that time. This week is, I believe, only choir practice for both of us on Thurs night. Wed night Ruth has her women’s group.I have been bringing a sack lunch almost every noon, as I may have mentioned. It saves a little money and I have time for study and things like writing this letter. Yesterday morning we picked up that Mrs. Wilson (Dr.’s wife) and took her to s.s. and church. Had a big crowd at both and Phil Keeler (our teacher) announced his resignation. I guess they have no one definite, as yet. After church Ruth and Lesle caught a ride home and I stayed for the every member canvass workers dinner. We left the church about 1:30. I had 4 calls, of which only 2 were home and I got only 1 pledge. I’ll have to call back for the 2 not at home. I had trouble finding some of them and drove and drove. Ruth went back to the church with me (and Lesle) at 5:30 for the check in. It looked like they would meet the budget and the new capital improvements program (for off street parking, new equipment and etc.)Ruth gave me a haircut yesterday evening. Lesle had a new tooth yesterday (4 total) - we thought it came in earlier. Sat morning I came to lab awhile and then helped Ruth around the house in the afternoon, while I listened to the football games.  Ruth finished making a new skirt which she wore to the s.s. progressive dinner and children’s block sanding party we went to in the evening. This is the 3<sup>rd</sup> yr our class has made these blocks. They are given to children’s hospitals etc. Last week I had to attend the every member canvass workers dinner on Wed and then we all went to choir on Thurs.

</letter>
<letter date="11-24-58" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

I’ll make this short. We had planned to leave here Fri morning and stay till Sun leaving after dinner. We received your letter at noon, explaining how M.J. and Bill will be leaving Fri noon. <b>Henceforth </b>we will leave here Thurs morning and arrive around noon or shortly afterwards depending on how soon we leave. Better figure on a late dinner I guess. We will then stay till Sat or possibly Sun. I’m telling Dr. Walaszek that I’m going to Hutch for Thanksgiving and will be back Sat or Sun to finish work on my talk etc. However, I’ll try to have the talk done before I leave here and will review for the exam there. If you would prefer having us come Fri and then staying over Sun for sure, just call us. The trip, of course, depends on good driving weather.It is cloudy and colder here today, but no moisture. We had the Burfords over for dinner yesterday and then I studied. We all went to s.s. and church. Last Thurs night and tomorrow night are choir practice for our 2 night special Christmas Carol Sing. Sat morning I studied and we went downtown, to grocery etc. in the afternoon and cleaned the house the rest of the day. Lesle is fine and sure likes her high chair. Tonight I have to go to a dinner for a visiting professor who Dr. Peters hopes will become a new member of our department. We will not have class tonight. Ruth was gone last Wed night to her circle and thats about what we’ve done. We’ll probably be seeing you all Thurs.

</letter>
<letter date="12-3-58" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

I’ll write this while I’m eating my lunch here at the desk. We were all glad that we could spend Thanksgiving with all of you, and that we could all be together. Let us know if you plan to visit Aunt Nellie and maybe we can see you then. Our trip last Sat afternoon was fine all the way to Emporia. I got sleepy at Newton, so Ruth drove from Newton to Emporia. The roads were clear all the way. We got on the turnpike and stopped a bit at the Emporia service area. Between there and Topeka we ruined one of our tires. I heard a bang and thought I had run over a rock, the tires were still inflated and I couldn’t see anything wrong. However, there was so much vibration that I couldn’t drive faster than 35mi/hr the last 30 miles into Topeka. We left the turnpike there and went to a filling station where we found that all of the tread, from an area about 3 inches wide and 12 inches long has simply come off. It had not gone clear through, so the tire remained inflated and I was able to drive on it. It apparently was a defective tire as the tread is still good and I was only driving 65-70 mi/hr. If I had felt the tire carefully after the noise I would have discovered the reason and would have changed the tire then. I still have never changed a tire in my life, but will probably get the chance someday. We had had such good overall luck with the car and tires up until that time. We got back on the turnpike again at Topeka and drove to Lawrence where we ate some supper. It was almost 9:00 PM by the time we got here.Apparently that vibration in the car that I noticed in the car on the way to Hutchinson was due to the tire. I called the tire company and they said there would probably be some adjustment. I’ll take care of that Sat. I studied some Sat night after unloading most of the car. Sun morning Lesle finally had a runny nose and symptoms of a cold so I stayed home from church and Ruth went. Lesle had had a fever before we went to Hutchinson. I studied all day Sun and then Ruth got the cold. I have a touch of it today myself.Mon morning I wrote on the exam and in the afternoon I wrote some more in between going to the Dr.’s office to pick up a prescription and having it filled here. To get a prescription filled here at the center it has to be written by a staff or part-time staff member, and has to be on a KU blank. My seminar went OK in the evening even though I didn’t get to spend any more time on it. Since I had the seminar and was tired they let me finish the exam yesterday morning. Dr. Walaszek thought Hugh and I should both have A’s but the other staff members have to grade them also. He said my seminar was good. The 2<sup>nd</sup> quarter graduate course starts next Mon night. There will be no course the 3<sup>rd</sup> quarter, in the spring. I started on German again last night. I’m cutting down on the lab work some to study German. Dr. Mazur from Osawatomie is here today and I’m helping he and Dr. W run an experiment. Just called Ruth and she had your card. We’ll go to Lawrence Sun the 14<sup>th</sup> for Christmas Vespers. Tell Aunt Clara and Uncle Clyde hello. Thanks for Thanksgiving.

</letter>
<letter date="12-9-58" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

I’ll write this while I’m eating my lunch. Yesterday noon I only had one sandwich so I went to the cafeteria for the first time in a long time, and had some soup, also. It is very cold today, about 12-14 degrees and was cold last night. Snow was predicted for here yesterday, but we have missed it entirely, so far. I studied German yesterday during the day. Dr. Peters doesn’t fully approve of a graduate student taking time off during the day for study, but Dr. Walaszek and I agreed that I needed some time right now.Yesterday evening was the first session of the 2<sup>nd</sup> quarter graduate course, entitled “Chemical Pharmacology.” It will deal with chemical techniques as applied to pharmacology, etc. while the first course dealt with biochemical techniques. Hugh Burford and I both received A’s for the first course (we were the only two enrolled). From 3 of the 4 professors I had an average of 94 and Hugh 91.5. While I was here, last night, Ruth and Lesle visited across the street. Mr. Brownfield was working so Mrs. B was glad to have their company. Ruth likes to watch TV occasionally and goes over whenever her favorate programs are on.We’ll be at home tonight, and then on Wed and Thurs nights we’ll be going to the around the table Carol sing at the church. The choir has an extensive part and there is a dinner preceeding the program. The choir members are dinner guests on Thurs night. Next Sun afternoon, I believe, is the A Cappella Choir Vespers in Lawrence, so I imagine we’ll be going. Dec 21<sup>st</sup>, Sun morning, is our church choir cantata. We’ll all practically over our colds, but Ruth and I still sneeze occasionally and have runny noses. I stayed home from here last Sat morning as my throat was somewhat raw, it is better now.Sat afternoon we fought the big crowd and cold weather and went shopping on the Plaza for some gifts. We bought a Christmas tree and groceries on the way home. Sat evening we strung popcorn and cranberries for the tree and listened to the KU basketball game. I put the tree up and it all looks very nice – it is larger than the one we had last year. Lesle notices it and the Christmas star decorations on the wall, also. She practically walks and isn’t happy unless she’s up and around.Sun morning I went to s.s. and church and Lesle and Ruth stayed home. I studied German and rested in the afternoon and Ken and Elizabeth came over awhile in the evening and thus got to see the tree. Their boy David is 2 months older than Jimmy and gets into everything. We went to choir last Thurs night and had a babysitter for Lesle and I guess that’s about what we’ve done. I called Ruth and she said we had your letter so I’ll read it when I get home. Tell Aunt Clara and all hello. I suppose M.J. and Bill are home by now.

</letter>
<letter date="12-16-58" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

I’ll start this now while I’m at the lab. Today is much warmer after having had bitter cold for several days. We have missed most of the snow but did have a little bit last Thurs night. Yesterday I studied German and then came to the graduate course in the evening. The Brownfields invited Ruth over for the evening so she was not home alone. She worked on some of the Christmas cards she is making. We have ordered a few of the type with a photograph of Lesle.
<v-row><letter-image :sources="['9f543bab329ee328cc33343425405e1f_html_da3f0fff.jpg']" ></letter-image></v-row>
I don’t know whether we’ll get them in time or not. We all had cards from Uncle Clyde yesterday. Lesle enjoys the tree and Ruth gave in yesterday and gave her one of her new Christmas toys. We’ll be at home tonight and I believe Ruth has women’s meeting tomorrow at the church. Thurs night is our big rehearsal <footnote>Looks like the a was added in later <span class="wingdings"></span></footnote> for the Christmas cantata the choir is singing this coming Sunday morning. Last year we sang it in the afternoon but had such poor attendance that they decided to do it during church time this year.I enrolled yesterday ($18) and paid $10 on that loan, which brings it down to about $15. I’m not too sure about Christmas, yet. If the weather is good we’ll probably leave Wed for Oberlin. I have considered the possibility of going by way of Hutch so will let you know later about any plans we make. As usual, I’m waiting till nearer the time to discuss it with Dr. Walaszek. The Laidig dinner will be on Friday, the 26<sup>th</sup>, at McCook, Neb. Last Sun morning we all made it to s.s. and church but I was too late to lead the singing in s.s. First time I’ve been late in a long time. They announced who our new teacher is going to be. He is a young man – early 30’s I guess.Sun afternoon we drove to Lawrence and attended the Christmas Vespers with Mary and Gary. They had a babysitter there to take care of the 2 children. I had a long talk with Dr. Wenzel over the telephone and then we all ate dinner at their apartment. The children were good and then Dallas Musgrave came by in the evening and we all watched TV awhile. Lesle went to sleep in the top part of the buggy and slept in it all the way home. Last Sat morning I worked awhile here and in the afternoon we went shopping at Mission and then back by the grocery store. I then went downtown and got a new tire. It cost $13.75 which was $20 less than the regular retail price so I guess I got about the same amount of credit as I would have if nothing had happened to the tire. It was obviously a defective tire. We stayed at home Sat night and I studied some. Fri night Ruth gave me a haircut and then watched TV awhile at the Brownfields.Last Tues night we were pleasantly surprised when we had a call from John Laidig (Ruth’s brother from Chatham, NJ who is 17 years older) saying that he had just arrived by plane and would be here Wed on business and could see us Wed evening. I picked him up at the hotel after seminar on Wed and we all had dinner together at home and then all went to the Christmas program at the church. We had planned to leave Lesle with Mrs. Rev. Moyes but left her with Mrs. Brownfield to save time. We were 15 mins late but Ruth had warned the choir director and it was OK.<footnote>This paragraph has ink marks in the margins on either side. </footnote> We all visited afterwards till 11:00 PM and I took John back to his hotel. His plane left the next morning. He is very nice and somewhat quiet and of course looks like his dad. As you know they have 6 children and is an engineer at the Bell Telephone Research Labs near New York. <footnote>The following sentence is underlined. </footnote> Ruth says he is the real genius in the family. He is a KU graduate. Her other brother Eldon is working on a master’s in education and plans to get a Dr. of Ed. so he can teach at the university level. I told John we might be back there next spring.Hope all are well – tell Aunt Clara, M.J. and Bill hello and Uncle Clyde thanks for the cards.
<v-row><letter-image :sources="['9f543bab329ee328cc33343425405e1f_html_b7db8b64.jpg', '9f543bab329ee328cc33343425405e1f_html_ff73fd76.jpg']" >Picture on left - Lesle and cousin Jim on December 23<sup>rd</sup> in Hutchinson. Picture on right - Christmas in Oberlin.



</letter-image></v-row>

</letter>
<letter date="12-29-58" variation="standard" :has-footnote="false">

I’ll take a break from the German and write you this I guess. I should have written you while we were in Oberlin. Today is much colder, cloudy and it looks like it could snow. Joe is not here today because of the flu. Lesle still has her cold and Ruth was hoarse this morning – I guess there’s a lot of it around. Yesterday morning I brought Hugh Burford (grad student) back from the dentists office. He had 2 teeth extracted and thought he might be a little too woosy to drive. Yesterday evening I studied and Ruth went for groceries and then watched TV awhile. Lesle slept all night after crying crying at supper. Her teeth apparently bother her and with the cold she gets all choked up. By the way, if we left her little spoon at your house would you please send it on as we can sure use it. We’ll be at home tonight and then tomorrow night we babysit for the Brownfields. There party starts at 8:30 rather than 6:30 (as we had thought) so it won’t be too bad. They have kept Lesle several times. There is no choir practice this Thurs and I’ll probably stay home to study. Edd isn’t back from Chicago yet – we had expected him in today. We had perfect trips all the way after leaving Hutchinson last Wed. I drove to Hays, the half-way point, and Ruth the rest of the way. The lunch worked out fine and we had some candy and cookies to share after we arrived. We got there about 4:45 and Dallas helped me unload the car. We stopped for a Pepsi and some milk at Hoxie (about 40 miles from Oberlin).The Musgraves were all there and I got to meet Delbert for the first time. He is the one that was in the army and then took that training (diesel engines) in St. Louis. However he is reenlisting in the army to make it his career. He is quite large and they say he is somewhat lazy. Don (at Emporia) plans to teach school and will probably get married before too long. Dallas gave his girl a ring (one at KU) but she refused it for now. She’s at a Mission Covenant Church School in Chicago. David will graduate from St. Johns Millitary Academy at Salina and will probably go to college. Dallas’s grades are down this year. Deloris and Danny are still at home. We all had one present Wed night and the rest on Thurs morning. I’ll let Ruth write the gift details to Aunt Clara. We were invited to Uncle Earls (the dentist) for supper Thurs night but didn’t go because of Lesle’s cold. Friday morning I picked out a new shirt downtown, that was a gift from Mrs. L. I had one of your shirts to me shortened in the sleves and will return the other. I saw Ted and Dot Addleman at the drug store where I worked. Sat noon was the Laidig dinner at another aunt and uncles in Danbury, Neb. 28 people in a small house and Lesle couldn’t sleep and was so fussy we went home early. Got to meet some of Ruth’s cousins that I didn’t know. Stayed for church Sun and left at 12:45 with lunch packed. Got here at 8:00 – good time and by leaving early beat a lot of night traffic. Love to all and thanks again to all Aunt Clara, M.J. and Bill. Love, Carroll, Ruth and Lesle
<v-row><letter-image :sources="['9f543bab329ee328cc33343425405e1f_html_d86ab273.jpg']" >Four generations send you Seasons Greetings from 1958.

Ruth Lesle Laidig Smith, Lesle Ann Smith, Minnie Lorene Williams Laidig, Ruth Ann Osborn Williams

</letter-image></v-row>

</letter>